Transitional provisions  
Annexes 
1. Communication  
Appendix - List of vehicle data for the purpose of UN Regulation No 90 approvals  
2. Arrangements of approval marks
EN 24.2.2023 Official Journal of the European Union L 60/1
 
3. Braking tests and performance of braking systems  
Appendix - Procedure for monitoring the state of battery charge  
4. Provisions relating to energy sources and energy storage devices (energy accumulators)  
5. Distribution of braking among the axles of vehicles  
Appendix 1 - Wheel-lock sequence test procedure  
Appendix 2 - Torque wheel test procedure  
6. Test requirements for vehicles fitted with anti-lock systems  
Appendix 1 - Symbols and definitions  
Appendix 2 - Utilisation of adhesion  
Appendix 3 - Performance on differing adhesion surfaces  
Appendix 4 - Method of selection of the low adhesion surface  
7. Inertia dynamometer test method for brake linings  
8. Special requirements to be applied to the safety aspects of complex electronic vehicle control systems  
1. Scope  
1.1. This Regulation applies to the braking of vehicles of categories M  1 and N  1 ( 1 ). 
1.2. This Regulation does not cover:  
1.2.1. Vehicles with a design speed not exceeding 25 km/h;  
1.2.2. Vehicles fitted for invalid drivers;  
1.2.3. The approval of the Electronic Stability Control (ESC) and Brake Assist System(s) (BAS) of the vehicle.  
2. Definitions  
For the purposes of this Regulation,  
2.1. ‘ Approval of a vehicle ’ means the approval of a vehicle type with regard to braking.  
2.2. ‘ Vehicle type ’ means a category of vehicles which do not differ in such essential respects as:  
2.2.1. The maximum mass, as defined in paragraph 2.11. below;  
2.2.2. The distribution of mass among the axles;  
2.2.3. The maximum design speed;
EN L 60/2 Official Journal of the European Union 24.2.2023  
( 1 ) This Regulation offers an alternative set of requirements for category N  1 vehicles to those contained in UN Regulation No 13. 
Contracting Parties that apply both UN Regulation No 13 and this Regulation recognize approvals to either Regulation as equally  
valid. M  1 and N  1 categories of vehicles are defined in the Consolidated Resolution on the Construction of Vehicles (R.E.3), 
document ECE/TRANS/WP.29/78/Rev.6, para. 2 - www.unece.org/trans/main/wp29/wp29wgs/wp29gen/wp29resolutions.html
 
2.2.4. A different type of braking equipment, with more particular reference to the presence or otherwise of 
equipment for braking a trailer or any presence of electric braking system;  
2.2.5. The engine type;  
2.2.6. The number and ratios of gears;  
2.2.7. The final drive ratios;  
2.2.8. The tyre dimensions.  
2.3. ‘ Braking equipment ’ means the combination of parts whose function is progressively to reduce the speed of a 
moving vehicle or bring it to a halt, or to keep it stationary if it is already halted; these functions are 
specified in paragraph 5.1.2. below. The equipment consists of the control, the transmission, and the brake 
proper. 
2.4. ‘ Control’ means the part actuated directly by the driver to furnish to the transmission the energy required for 
braking or controlling it. This energy may be the muscular energy of the driver, or energy from another 
source controlled by the driver, or a combination of these various kinds of energy.  
2.5. ‘ Transmission’ means the combination of components comprised between the control and the brake and 
linking them functionally. The transmission may be mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, electric or mixed. 
Where the braking power is derived from or assisted by a source of energy independent of the driver, the 
reserve of energy in the system is likewise part of the transmission.  
The transmission is divided into two independent functions: the control transmission and the energy 
transmission. Whenever the term ‘transmission’ is used alone in this Regulation, it means both the 
‘control transmission’ and the ‘energy transmission’:  
2.5.1. ‘ Control transmission ’ means the combination of the components of the transmission which control the 
operation of the brakes, including the control function and the necessary reserve(s) of energy;  
2.5.2. ‘ Energy transmission ’ means the combination of the components which supply to the brakes the necessary 
energy for their function, including the reserve(s) of energy necessary for the operation of the brakes.  
2.6. ‘ Brake’ means the part in which the forces opposing the movement of the vehicle develop. It may be a 
friction brake (when the forces are generated by friction between two parts of the vehicle moving relatively 
to one another); an electrical brake (when the forces are generated by electro-magnetic action between two 
parts of the vehicle moving relatively to but not in contact with one another); a fluid brake (when the 
forces are generated by the action of a fluid situated between two parts of the vehicle moving relatively to 
one another); or an engine brake (when the forces are derived from an artificial increase in the braking 
action, transmitted to the wheels, of the engine).  
2.7. ‘ Different types of braking equipment ’ means equipment which differ in such essential respects as:  
2.7.1. Components having different characteristics;  
2.7.2. A component made of materials having different characteristics, or a component differing in shape or size;  
2.7.3. A different assembly of the components.  
2.8. ‘ Component of the braking equipment ’ means one of the individual parts which, when assembled, constitutes 
the braking equipment.  
2.9. ‘ Progressive and graduated braking ’ means braking during which, within the normal operating range of the 
device, and during actuation of the brakes (see paragraph 2.16. below):  
2.9.1. The driver can at any moment increase or decrease the braking force by acting on the control;  
2.9.2. The braking force varies proportionally as the action on the control (monotonic function);  
2.9.3. The braking force can be easily regulated with sufficient precision.
EN 24.2.2023 Official Journal of the European Union L 60/3
 
2.10. ‘ Laden vehicle ’ means, except where otherwise stated, a vehicle so laden as to attain its ‘maximum mass’.  
2.11. ‘ Maximum mass ’ means the maximum mass stated by the vehicle manufacturer to be technically permissible 
(this mass may be higher than the ‘permissible maximum mass’ laid down by the national administration).  
2.12. ‘ The distribution of mass among the axles ’ means the distribution of the effect of the gravity on the mass of the 
vehicle and/or its contents among the axles.  
2.13. ‘ Wheel/axle load ’ means the vertical static reaction (force) of the road surface in the contact area on the 
wheel/wheels of the axle.  
2.14. ‘ Maximum stationary wheel/axle load ’ means the stationary wheel/axle load achieved under the condition of 
the laden vehicle.  
2.15. ‘ Hydraulic braking equipment with stored energy ’ means a braking equipment where energy is supplied by a 
hydraulic fluid under pressure, stored in one or more accumulator(s) fed from one or more pressure 
pump(s), each fitted with a means of limiting the pressure to a maximum value. This value shall be 
specified by the manufacturer.  
2.16. ‘ Actuation’ means both application and release of the control.  
2.17. ‘ Electric regenerative braking ’ means a braking system which, during deceleration, provides for the conversion 
of vehicle kinetic energy into electrical energy.  
2.17.1. ‘ Electric regenerative braking control ’ means a device which modulates the action of the electric regenerative 
braking system;  
2.17.2. ‘ Electric regenerative braking system of category A ’ means an electric regenerative braking system which is not 
part of the service braking system;  
2.17.3. ‘ Electric regenerative braking system of category B ’ means an electric regenerative braking system which is part 
of the service braking system;  
2.17.4. ‘ Electric state of charge ’ means the instantaneous ratio of electric quantity of energy stored in the traction 
battery relative to the maximum quantity of electric energy which could be stored in this battery;  
2.17.5. ‘ Traction battery ’ means an assembly of accumulators constituting the storage of energy used for powering 
the traction motor(s) of the vehicle.  
2.18. ‘ Phased braking ’ is a means which may be used where two or more sources of braking are operated from a 
common control, whereby one source may be given priority by phasing back the other source(s) so as to 
make increased control movement necessary before they begin to be brought into operation.  
2.19. ‘ Nominal value ’ definitions for braking reference performance are required to put a value on the transfer 
function of the braking system, relating output to input for vehicles individually.  
2.19.1. ‘ Nominal value ’ is defined as the characteristic which can be demonstrated at type approval and which 
relates the braking rate of the vehicle on its own to the level of the braking input variable.  
2.20. ‘ Automatically commanded braking ’ means a function within a complex electronic control system where 
actuation of the braking system(s) or brakes of certain axles is made for the purpose of generating 
vehicle retardation with or without a direct action of the driver, resulting from the automatic evaluation 
of on-board initiated information.  
2.21. ‘ Selective braking ’ means a function within a complex electronic control system where actuation of individual 
brakes is made by automatic means in which vehicle retardation is secondary to vehicle behaviour modi ­
fication. 
2.22. ‘ Braking signal ’: logic signal indicating brake activation as specified in paragraph 5.2.22. of this Regulation.  
2.23. ‘ Emergency braking signal ’: logic signal indicating emergency braking as specified in paragraph 5.2.23. of this 
Regulation.
EN L 60/4 Official Journal of the European Union 24.2.2023
 
2.24. ‘ Identification code ’ identifies the brake discs or brake drums covered by the braking system approval 
according to this Regulation. It contains at least the manufacturer's trade name or trademark and an 
identification number.  
3. Application for approval  
3.1. The application for approval of a vehicle type with regard to braking shall be submitted by the vehicle 
manufacturer or by his duly accredited representative.  
3.2. It shall be accompanied by the under-mentioned documents in triplicate and by the following particulars:  
3.2.1. A description of the vehicle type with regard to the items specified in paragraph 2.2. above. The numbers 
and/or symbols identifying the vehicle type and the engine type shall be specified;  
3.2.2. A list of the components, duly identified, constituting the braking equipment;  
3.2.3. A diagram of assembled braking equipment and an indication of the position of its components on the 
vehicle; 
3.2.4. Detailed drawings of each component to enable it to be easily located and identified.  
3.3. A vehicle, representative of the vehicle type to be approved, shall be submitted to the Technical Service 
conducting the approval tests.  
4. Approval  
4.1. If the vehicle type submitted for approval pursuant to this Regulation meets the requirements of 
paragraphs 5. and 6. below, approval of that vehicle type shall be granted.  
4.2. An approval number shall be assigned to each type approved, its first two digits shall indicate the series of 
amendments incorporating the most recent major technical amendments made to the Regulation at the 
time of issue of the approval. The same Contracting Party shall not assign the same number to the same 
vehicle type equipped with another type of braking equipment, or to another vehicle type.  
4.3. Notice of approval or of refusal of approval of a vehicle type pursuant to this Regulation shall be 
communicated to the Parties to the Agreement which apply this Regulation by means of a form 
conforming to the model in Annex 1 to this Regulation and of a summary of the information 
contained in the documents referred to in paragraphs 3.2.1. to 3.2.4. above, the drawings supplied by 
the applicant for approval being in a format not exceeding A4 (210 × 297 mm), or folded to that format, 
and on an appropriate scale.  
4.4. There shall be affixed, conspicuously and in a readily accessible place specified on the approval form, to 
every vehicle conforming to a vehicle type approved under this Regulation, an international approval mark 
consisting of:  
4.4.1. A circle surrounding the letter ‘E’ followed by the distinguishing number of the country which has granted 
approval ( 2 ) and of  
4.4.2. The number of this Regulation, followed by the letter ‘R’, a dash and the approval number to the right of 
the circle prescribed in paragraph 4.4.1. above.  
4.5. If the vehicle conforms to a vehicle type approved under one or more other Regulations, annexed to the 
Agreement, in the country which has granted approval under this Regulation, the symbol prescribed in 
paragraph 4.4.1. above, need not be repeated; in such a case, the Regulation and approval numbers and the 
additional symbols of all the regulations under which approval has been granted in the country which has 
granted approval under this Regulation shall be placed in vertical columns to the right of the symbol 
prescribed in paragraph 4.4.1. above.
EN 24.2.2023 Official Journal of the European Union L 60/5  
( 2 ) The distinguishing numbers of the Contracting Parties to the 1958 Agreement are reproduced in Annex 3 to the Consolidated 
Resolution on the Construction of Vehicles (R.E.3), document ECE/TRANS/WP.29/78/Rev. 6, Annex 3- www.unece.org/trans/main/ 
wp29/wp29wgs/wp29gen/wp29resolutions.html
 
4.6. The approval mark shall be clearly legible and be indelible.  
4.7. The approval mark shall be placed close to or on the vehicle data plate.  
4.8. Annex 2 to this Regulation gives examples of arrangements of approval marks.  
5. Specifications  
5.1. General  
5.1.1. Braking equipment  
5.1.1.1. The braking equipment shall be so designed, constructed and fitted as to enable the vehicle in normal use, 
despite the vibration to which it may be subjected, to comply with the provisions of this Regulation.  
5.1.1.2. In particular, the braking equipment shall be so designed, constructed and fitted as to be able to resist the 
corroding and ageing phenomena to which it is exposed.  
5.1.1.3. Brake linings shall not contain asbestos.  
5.1.1.4. The effectiveness of the braking equipment shall not be adversely affected by magnetic or electrical fields. 
This shall be demonstrated by fulfilling the technical requirements and respecting the transitional provisions 
of UN Regulation No 10 by applying:  
(a) The 03 series of amendments for vehicles without a coupling system for charging the Rechargeable 
Electric Energy Storage System (traction batteries);  
(b) The 04 series of amendments for vehicles with a coupling system for charging the Rechargeable Electric 
Energy Storage System (traction batteries).  
5.1.1.5. A failure detection signal may interrupt momentarily (< 10 ms) the demand signal in the control trans ­
mission, provided that the braking performance is thereby not reduced.  
5.1.2. Functions of the braking equipment  
The braking equipment defined in paragraph 2.3. of this Regulation shall fulfil the following functions:  
5.1.2.1. Service braking system  
The service braking system shall make it possible to control the movement of the vehicle and to halt it 
safely, speedily and effectively, whatever its speed and load, on any up or down gradient. It shall be possible 
to graduate this braking action. The driver shall be able to achieve this braking action from his driving seat 
without removing his hands from the steering control.  
5.1.2.2. Secondary braking system  
The secondary braking system shall make it possible by application of the service brake control to halt the 
vehicle within a reasonable distance in the event of failure of the service braking system. It shall be possible 
to graduate this braking action. The driver shall be able to obtain this braking action from his driving seat 
without removing his hands from the steering control. For the purposes of these provisions it is assumed 
that not more than one failure of the service braking system can occur at one time.  
5.1.2.3. Parking braking system  
The parking braking system shall make it possible to hold the vehicle stationary on an up or down gradient 
even in the absence of the driver, the working parts being then held in the locked position by a purely 
mechanical device. The driver shall be able to achieve this braking action from his driving seat.  
5.1.3. The requirements of Annex 8 shall be applied to the safety aspects of all complex electronic vehicle control 
systems, including those defined in an independent regulation, which provide or form part of the control 
transmission of the braking function, included those which utilize the braking system(s) for automatically 
commanded braking or selective braking.
EN L 60/6 Official Journal of the European Union 24.2.2023
 
However, vehicles equipped with systems or functions, including those defined in an independent regu ­
lation, which use the braking system as the means of achieving a higher level objective, are subject to 
Annex 8 only insofar as they have a direct effect on the braking system. If such systems are provided, they 
shall not be deactivated during type approval testing of the braking system.  
5.1.4. Provisions for the periodic technical inspection of braking systems  
5.1.4.1. It shall be possible to assess the wear condition of the components of the service brake that are subject to 
wear e.g. friction linings and drums/discs (in the case of drums or discs, wear assessment may not 
necessarily be carried out at the time of periodic technical inspection). The method by which this may 
be realized is defined in paragraphs 5.2.11.2. of this Regulation.  
5.1.4.2. It shall be possible to verify, in a frequent and simple way, the correct operational status of those complex 
electronic systems which have control over braking. If special information is needed, this shall be made 
freely available.  
5.1.4.2.1. Where the operational status is indicated to the driver by warning signals, as specified in this Regulation, it 
shall be possible at a periodic technical inspection to confirm the correct operational status by visual 
observation of the warning signals following a power-on.  
5.1.4.2.2. At the time of type approval, the means implemented to protect against simple unauthorized modification 
of the operation to the verification means chosen by the manufacturer (e.g. warning signal) shall be 
confidentially outlined. Alternatively, this protection requirement is fulfilled when a secondary means of 
checking the correct operational status is available.  
5.1.4.3. It shall be possible to generate maximum braking forces under static conditions on a rolling road or roller 
brake tester.  
5.2. Characteristics of braking systems  
5.2.1. The set of braking systems with which a vehicle is equipped shall satisfy the requirements laid down for 
service, secondary and parking braking systems.  
5.2.2. The systems providing service, secondary and parking braking may have common components so long as 
they fulfil the following conditions:  
5.2.2.1. There shall be at least two controls, independent of each other and readily accessible to the driver from his 
normal driving position. Every brake control shall be designed such that it returns to the fully off position 
when released. This requirement shall not apply to a parking brake control when it is mechanically locked 
in an applied position;  
5.2.2.2. The control of the service braking system shall be independent of the control of the parking braking 
system; 
5.2.2.3. The effectiveness of the linkage between the control of the service braking system and the different 
components of the transmission systems shall not be liable to diminish after a certain period of use;  
5.2.2.4. The parking braking system shall be so designed that it can be actuated when the vehicle is in motion. This 
requirement may be met by the actuation of the vehicle's service braking system, even partially, by means 
of an auxiliary control;  
5.2.2.5. Without prejudice to the requirements of paragraph 5.1.2.3. of this Regulation, the service braking system 
and the parking braking system may use common components in their transmission(s), provided that in the 
event of a failure in any part of the transmission(s) the requirements for secondary braking are still ensured;  
5.2.2.6. In the event of breakage of any component other than the brakes (as defined in paragraph 2.6. above) and 
the components referred to in paragraph 5.2.2.10. below, or of any other failure of the service braking 
system (malfunction, partial or total exhaustion of an energy reserve), that part of the service braking 
system which is not affected by the failure, shall be able to bring the vehicle to a halt in the conditions 
prescribed for secondary braking;
EN 24.2.2023 Official Journal of the European Union L 60/7
 
5.2.2.7. If service braking is ensured by the action of the driver's muscular energy assisted by one or more energy 
reserves, secondary braking shall, in the event of failure of that assistance, be capable of being ensured by 
the driver's muscular energy assisted by the energy reserves, if any, which are unaffected by the failure, the 
force applied to the service brake control not exceeding the prescribed maximum;  
5.2.2.8. If the service braking force and transmission depend exclusively on the use, controlled by the driver, of an 
energy reserve, there shall be at least two completely independent energy reserves, each provided with its 
own transmission, likewise independent; each of them may act on the brakes of only two or more wheels 
so selected as to be capable of ensuring by themselves the prescribed degree of secondary braking without 
endangering the stability of the vehicle during braking; in addition, each of the aforesaid energy reserves 
shall be equipped with a warning device as defined in paragraph 5.2.14. below;  
5.2.2.9. If the service braking force and transmission depend exclusively on the use of an energy reserve, one energy 
reserve for the transmission is deemed to be sufficient, provided that the prescribed secondary braking is 
ensured by the action of the driver's muscular energy acting on the service brake control and the 
requirements of paragraph 5.2.5. below are met;  
5.2.2.10. Certain parts, such as the pedal and its bearing, the master cylinder and its piston or pistons, the control 
valve, the linkage between the pedal and the master cylinder or the control valve, the brake cylinders and 
their pistons, and the lever-and-cam assemblies of brakes, shall not be regarded as liable to breakage if they 
are amply dimensioned, are readily accessible for maintenance, and exhibit safety features at least equal to 
those prescribed for other essential components (such as the steering linkage) of the vehicle. Any such part 
as aforesaid whose failure would make it impossible to brake the vehicle with a degree of effectiveness at 
least equal to that prescribed for secondary braking shall be made of metal or of a material with equivalent 
characteristics and shall not undergo notable distortion in normal operation of the braking systems.  
5.2.3. The failure of a part of a hydraulic transmission system shall be signalled to the driver by a device 
comprising a red tell-tale signal lighting up before or upon application of a differential pressure of not 
more than 15,5 bar between the active and failed brake equipment, measured at the master cylinder outlet 
and remaining lit as long as the failure persists and the ignition (start) switch is in the ‘On’ (run) position. 
However, a device comprising a red tell-tale signal lighting up when the fluid in the reservoir is below a 
certain level specified by the manufacturer is permitted. The tell-tale signal shall be visible even by daylight; 
the satisfactory condition of the signal shall be easily verifiable by the driver from the driver's seat. The 
failure of a component of the device shall not entail total loss of the braking equipment's effectiveness. 
Application of the parking brake shall also be indicated to the driver. The same tell-tale signal may be used.  
5.2.4. Where use is made of energy other than the muscular energy of the driver, there need not be more than 
one source of such energy (hydraulic pump, air compressor, etc.), but the means by which the device 
constituting that source is driven shall be as safe as practicable.  
5.2.4.1. In the event of failure in any part of the transmission of a braking system, the feed to the part not affected 
by the failure shall continue to be ensured if required for the purpose of halting the vehicle with the degree 
of effectiveness prescribed for secondary braking. This condition shall be met by means of devices which 
can easily be actuated when the vehicle is stationary, or by automatic means.  
5.2.4.2. Furthermore, storage devices located down-circuit of this device shall be such that in the case of a failure in 
the energy supply after four full-stroke actuations of the service brake control, under the conditions 
prescribed in paragraph 1.2. of Annex 4 to this Regulation, it is still possible to halt the vehicle at the 
fifth application, with the degree of effectiveness prescribed for secondary braking.  
5.2.4.3. However, for hydraulic braking systems with stored energy, these provisions can be considered to be met 
provided that the requirements of paragraph 1.3. of Annex 4 to this Regulation, are satisfied.
EN L 60/8 Official Journal of the European Union 24.2.2023
 
5.2.5. The requirements of paragraphs 5.2.2., 5.2.3. and 5.2.4. above shall be met without the use of any 
automatic device of a kind such that its ineffectiveness might pass unnoticed through the fact that parts 
normally in a position of rest come into action only in the event of failure in the braking system.  
5.2.6. The service braking system shall act on all wheels of the vehicle and shall distribute its action appropriately 
among the axles.  
5.2.7. In the case of vehicles equipped with electric regenerative braking systems of category B, the braking input 
from other sources of braking, may be suitably phased to allow the electric regenerative braking system 
alone to be applied, provided that both the following conditions are met:  
5.2.7.1. Intrinsic variations in the torque output of the electrical regenerative braking system (e.g. as a result of 
changes in the electric state of charge in the traction batteries) are automatically compensated by appro ­
priate variation in the phasing relationship as long as the requirements (  3 ) of one of the following annexes 
to this Regulation are satisfied:  
Annex 3, paragraph 1.3.2., or  
Annex 6, paragraph 5.3. (including the case with the electric motor engaged), and  
wherever necessary, to ensure that braking rate 3/ remains related to the driver's braking demand, having 
regard to the available tyre/road adhesion, braking shall automatically be caused to act on all wheels of the 
vehicle. 
5.2.8. The action of the service braking system shall be distributed between the wheels of one and the same axle 
symmetrically in relation to the longitudinal median plane of the vehicle.  
Compensation and functions, such as anti-lock, which may cause deviations from this symmetrical 
distribution shall be declared.  
5.2.8.1. Compensation by the electric control transmission for deterioration or defect within the braking system 
shall be indicated to the driver by means of the yellow warning signal specified in paragraph 5.2.21.1.2. 
below. This requirement shall apply for all conditions of loading when compensation exceeds the following 
limits: 
5.2.8.1.1. A difference in transverse braking pressures on any axle:  
(a) Of 25 per cent of the higher value for vehicle decelerations ≥ 2 m/s  2 ; 
(b) A value corresponding to 25 per cent at 2 m/s  2 for decelerations below this rate.  
5.2.8.1.2. An individual compensating value on any axle:  
(a) > 50 per cent of the nominal value for vehicle decelerations ≥ 2 m/s  2 ; 
(b) A value corresponding to 50 per cent of the nominal value at 2 m/s  2 for decelerations below this rate.  
5.2.8.2. Compensation as defined above, is permitted only when the initial brake application is made at vehicle 
speeds greater than 10 km/h.  
5.2.9. Malfunctions of the electric control transmission shall not apply the brakes contrary to the driver's 
intentions. 
5.2.10. The service, secondary and parking braking systems shall act on braking surfaces connected to the wheels 
through components of adequate strength.  
Where braking torque for a particular axle or axles is provided by both a friction braking system and an 
electrical regenerative braking system of category B, disconnection of the latter source is permitted, 
providing that the friction braking source remains permanently connected and able to provide the compen ­
sation referred to in paragraph 5.2.7.1. above.  
However, in the case of short disconnection transients, incomplete compensation is accepted, but within 1s, 
this compensation shall have attained at least 75 per cent of its final value.  
Nevertheless, in all cases, the permanently connected friction braking source shall ensure that both the 
service and secondary braking systems continue to operate with the prescribed degree of effectiveness.
EN 24.2.2023 Official Journal of the European Union L 60/9  
( 3 ) The Type Approval Authority, which is to grant approval, shall have the right to check the service braking system by addition al 
vehicle test procedures.
 
Disconnection of the braking surfaces of