transitional provisions of Regulation No 10 by applying: 
          
             
             
             
                
                   
                      (a) 
                   
                   
                      The 03 series of amendments for vehicles without a coupling system for charging the Rechargeable Electric Energy Storage System (traction batteries); 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
                
                   
                      (b) 
                   
                   
                      The 04 series of amendments for vehicles with a coupling system for charging the Rechargeable Electric Energy Storage System (traction batteries) 
                   
                
             
          
          5.1.3.   The system shall operate from a speed of 40 km/h or below, up to the vehicle's maximum design speed. 
          5.1.4.   The vehicle shall fulfil the tests (puncture, diffusion and malfunction) as specified in Annex 3. 
          5.2.   Tyre pressure detection for incident-related pressure loss. 
          5.2.1.   The TPMS shall illuminate the warning signal described in paragraph 5.5 within not more than ten minutes of cumulative driving time after the in service operating pressure in one of the vehicle's tyres has been reduced by twenty per cent or it is at a minimum pressure of 150 kPa, whatever is higher. 
          5.3.   Detection for a tyre pressure level significantly below the recommended pressure for optimum performance including fuel consumption and safety. 
          5.3.1.   The TPMS shall illuminate the warning signal described in paragraph 5.5 within not more than sixty minutes of cumulative driving time after the in-service operating pressure in any of the vehicle's tyres, up to a total of four tyres, has been reduced by twenty per cent or it is at a minimum pressure of 150 kPa, whatever is higher. 
          5.4.   Malfunction detection. 
          5.4.1.   The TPMS shall illuminate the warning signal described in paragraph 5.5 not more than 10 minutes after the occurrence of a malfunction that affects the generation or transmission of control or response signals in the vehicle's tyre pressure monitoring system. 
          5.5.   Warning indication. 
          5.5.1.   The warning indication shall be by means of an optical warning signal conforming to Regulation No 121. 
          5.5.2.   The warning signal shall be activated when the ignition (start) switch is in the ‘on’ (run) position (bulb check). This requirement does not apply to tell-tales shown in a common space. 
          5.5.3.   The warning signal must be visible even by daylight; the satisfactory condition of the signal must be easily verifiable by the driver from the driver's seat. 
          5.5.4.   The malfunction indication may be the same warning signal as the one used to indicate under-inflation. If the warning signal described in paragraph 5.5.1 is used to indicate both under-inflation and a malfunction of the TPMS, the following shall apply: with the ignition (start) switch in the ‘on’ (run) position the warning signal shall flash to indicate a malfunction. After a short period of time the warning signal shall remain continuously illuminated as long as the malfunction exists and the ignition (start) switch is in the ‘on’ (run) position. The flashing and illumination sequence shall be repeated each time the ignition (start) switch is in the ‘on’ (run) position until the malfunction has been corrected. 
          5.5.5.   The tell-tale of the warning described in paragraph 5.5.1 may be used in a flashing mode in order to provide information about the reset status of the tyre pressure monitoring system in accordance with the owner's manual of the vehicle. 
          6.   SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 
          6.1.   The owner's manual, if any, of the vehicle shall contain at least the following information: 
          
             
             
             
                
                   
                      6.1.1. 
                   
                   
                      A statement that the vehicle is equipped with such a system (and information how to reset the system, if the actual system includes such a feature). 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
                
                   
                      6.1.2. 
                   
                   
                      An image of the tell-tale symbol described in paragraph 5.5.1 (and an image of the malfunction tell-tale symbol, if a dedicated tell-tale is used for this function). 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
                
                   
                      6.1.3. 
                   
                   
                      Additional information about the significance of the low tyre pressure warning tell-tale illuminating and a description of the corrective action to be undertaken if this happens. 
                   
                
             
          
          6.2.   If no owner's manual is supplied with the vehicle, the information required in paragraph 6.1 above shall be displayed in a prominent place on the vehicle. 
          7.   MODIFICATIONS AND EXTENSION OF APPROVAL OF THE VEHICLE TYPE 
          7.1.   Every modification of the vehicle type as defined in paragraph 2.2 of this Regulation shall be notified to the Type Approval Authority which approved the vehicle type. The Type Approval Authority may then either: 
          
             
             
             
                
                   
                      7.1.1. 
                   
                   
                      Consider that the modifications made do not have an adverse effect on the conditions of the granting of the approval and grant an extension of approval; 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
                
                   
                      7.1.2. 
                   
                   
                      Consider that the modifications made affect the conditions of the granting of the approval and require further tests or additional checks before granting an extension of approval. 
                   
                
             
          
          7.2.   Confirmation or refusal of approval, specifying the alterations, shall be communicated by the procedure specified in paragraph 4.3 above to the Contracting Parties to the Agreement applying this Regulation. 
          7.3.   The Type Approval Authority shall inform the other Contracting Parties of the extension by means of the communication form which appears in Annex 1 to this Regulation. It shall assign a serial number to each extension, to be known as the extension number. 
          8.   CONFORMITY OF PRODUCTION 
          8.1.   The conformity of production procedures shall comply with those set out in Appendix 2 of the Agreement (E/ECE/324–E/ECE/TRANS/505/Rev.2), with the following requirements: 
          8.2.   The Type Approval Authority which has granted type approval, may at any time verify the conformity of production in each production facility. The normal frequency of these verifications shall be at least once per year. 
          9.   PENALTIES FOR NON-CONFORMITY OF PRODUCTION 
          9.1.   The approval granted in respect of a vehicle type pursuant to this Regulation may be withdrawn if the requirements laid down in paragraph 8 are not complied with. 
          9.2.   If a Contracting Party to the Agreement, which applies this Regulation, withdraws an approval it has previously granted, it shall forthwith so notify the other Contracting Parties applying this Regulation, by means of a copy of the approval form bearing at the end, in large letters, the signed and dated annotation ‘APPROVAL WITHDRAWN’. 
          10.   PRODUCTION DEFINITIVELY DISCONTINUED 
          If the holder of the approval completely ceases to manufacture a type of vehicle approved in accordance with this Regulation, he shall so inform the authority which granted the approval. Upon receiving the relevant communication that authority shall inform thereof the other Contracting Parties to the Agreement applying this Regulation by means of a copy of the approval form bearing at the end, in large letters, the signed and dated annotation ‘PRODUCTION DISCONTINUED’. 