transitional provisions of Regulations Nos 30, 54 and 117 as applicable. 
5.2. P erformance requirements 
5.2.1. T yre fitment 
5.2.1.1. All tyres nor mally fi tt ed to the vehicle, thus excl uding any tem porar y-use spare unit, shall hav e the same 
str ucture. 
5.2.1.2. All of the tyres nor mally fi tte d to one axle shall be of the same type. 
5.2.1.3. The space in which the wheel revolve s shall be such as to allow unrestr icte d move ment when using the 
maximum per missible size of tyres and r im widths, taking into account the minimum and maximum 
wheel off-sets, within the minimum and maximum suspension and steer ing constraints as declared by the 
vehicle manufacturer . This shall be ver ified by performin g the c hecks with the larg est and the widest tyres, 
taking into account the applicable dimensional tol erances (i.e. maximum envelope) relat ed to the tyre size 
designation as specifi ed in the relevant UN Regulation. 
5.2.1.4. The T ech nical Ser vice and/or T ype Approv al A uthor ities ma y agree to an altern ative test procedure (e.g. 
vir tual test ing) to ver ify that the requirements of paragraph 5.2.1.3 are met. 
5.2.2. Load capacity 
5.2.2.1. Subject to the pro visions of paragraph 5.2.4 of this Regulation, the maximum load rating of ever y tyre as 
det er mined in paragraph 5.2.2.2 of this Regulation, including a standard spare unit (if pro vided), with 
whic h the vehicle is fitted shall be: 
5.2.2.1.1. In the case of a vehicle fi tte d with tyres of the same type in sing le f or mation: at least equal to half of the 
tec hnically per missible maximum axle mass f or the most heavily loaded axle, as declared by the 
manuf acturer of the vehicle. 
(
2
) As defined in Annex 3 t o the Consolidated Resolution on the Constr uction of V ehicles (R.E.3) (document 
ECE/TRANS/WP .29/78/Rev .6) www .unece.org/trans/main/wp29/wp29wgs/wp29gen/wp29resolutions.html 
EN Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 21.2.2020                                                                                                                                           L 48/63   
5.2.2.1.2. In the case of a vehicle fitted with tyres of more than one type, in sing le f or mation: at least equal to half of 
the tec hnically per missible maximum axle mass as declared by the manufa cturer of the vehicle, in respect of 
the relevant axle. 
5.2.2.1.3. In the case of a vehicle fitted with tyres of class C1 in dual (twin) f or mation: at least equal to 0,27 times the 
tec hnically per missible maximum axle mass, as declared by the manufacturer of the vehicle, in respect of 
the relevant axle. 
5.2.2.1.4. In the case of axles fi tt ed with tyres of class C2 in dual (twin) f or mation: at least equal to 0,25 times, with 
refe rence to the load capacity index f or dual application, the tec hnically per missible maximum axle mass 
as declared by the manufacturer of the vehicle, in respect of the relevant axle. 
5.2.2.2. The maximum load rating of a tyre is deter mined as f ollows: 
5.2.2.2.1. In the case of tyres of class C1, the ‘maximum load rating’ as ref er red to in paragraph 2 of UN Regulation 
No 30 is tak en into account. 
5.2.2.2.2. In the case of tyres of class C2, the ‘ T able load-capacity var iation with speed’ as refer red to in paragraph 2 of 
UN Regulation No 54 is taken into account, which shows, as a function of the load-capacity indices and 
nominal-speed-cat egor y symbols, the load var iations which a pneumatic tyre can withstand taking into 
account the maximum design speed of the vehicle. 
5.2.2.3. The manufacturer shall pro vide in the vehicle o wner ’s handbook, or by any other communication means in 
the vehicle the necessar y inf or mation about replacement tyres load capacity . 
5.2.3. Speed capacity 
5.2.3.1. Ever y tyre with whic h the vehicle is nor mally fi tte d shall bear a speed catego r y symbol. 
5.2.3.1.1. In the case of a tyre of class C1, the speed catego r y symbol shall be compati ble with the maximum vehicle 
design speed and shall take into account, in the case of tyres of speed cate gor ies V , W and Y , the maximum 
load rating as descr ibed in Regulation No 30. 
5.2.3.1.2. In the case of tyre of class C2, the speed catego r y symbol shall be compati ble with the maximum vehicle 
design speed and the applicable load/speed combination der ived from the ‘ T able load-capacity var iation 
with speed’ as descr ibed in paragraph 2 of UN Regulation No 54. 
5.2.3.2. The requirements of paragraphs 5.2.3.1.1 and 5.2.3.1.2 shall not apply in the f ollowi ng situations: 
5.2.3.2.1. In the case of tem porar y-use spare units f or which paragraph 5.2.5 of this Regulation applies. 
5.2.3.2.2. In the case of vehicles nor mally equipped with nor mal tyres and occasionally fitted with snow tyres where 
in such a case the speed categor y symbol of the sno w tyre shall cor respond to a speed either great er than 
the maximum vehicle design speed or not less than 160 km/h (or both). Howe ver , if the maximum vehicle 
design speed is greate r than the speed cor responding to the lowe st speed catego r y symbol of the fitted 
sno w tyres, a maximum speed war ning label, specifying the lo west value of the maximum speed capability 
of the fi tted snow tyres, shall be displa yed inside the vehicle in a prominent position readily and 
per manently visible to the dr iver . 
5.2.3.2.3. In the case of vehicles equipped with special use tyres. Howe ver , if the maximum vehicle design speed is 
great er than the speed cor responding to the lowe st speed catego r y symbol of the fitted special use tyres, a 
maximum speed war ning label, specifying the lo west value of the maximum speed capability of the fitted 
special use tyres, shall be displa ye d inside the vehicle in a prominent position readily and per manently 
visible to the dr iver . 
EN Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on L 48/64                                                                                                                                           21.2.2020   
5.2.3.2.4. In the case of vehicles equipped with an on-board syste m fulfilling a speed limitation function where in 
such a case the speed symbol of the tyres shall be compati ble with the speed at whic h the limitation is set. 
Howe ver , if the vehicle manuf acturer has f oreseen that the maximum vehicle design speed is greate r than 
the speed cor responding to the lo west speed catego r y symbol of the fitted tyres, a maximum speed 
war ning label, specifying the maximum speed capability of the tyres, shall be displa yed inside the vehicle 
in a prominent position readily and per manently visible to the dr iver . 
5.2.3.3. The manuf acturer shall pro vide the necessar y inf or mation about replacement tyres speed capacity in the 
vehicle o wner ’s handbook or by any other communication means in the vehicle. 
5.2.4. Special cases 
5.2.4.1. In the case of vehicles whic h are designed to be capable of to wing a trailer , the additional load im posed at 
the trailer coupling device ma y cause the rear tyre maximum load ratings to be exceeded in case of class 
C1 tyres, but not by more than 15 per cent. In such a case, the vehicle owner ’s handbook, or the other 
communication means refer red to in paragraph 5.2.3.3, shall contain clear inf or mation and advice on the 
maximum per missible vehicle speed when to wing a trailer , in any case not exceeding 100 km/h, and on 
the rear tyre pressure, at least 20 kPa (0,2 bar) above the tyre pressure(s) as recommended f or nor mal use 
(i.e. without a trailer attached). 
5.2.4.2. In excep tional cases, where vehicles are designed f or conditions of use which are incompati ble with the 
c haract er istics of tyres of class C1 or C2 and it is theref ore necessar y to fit tyres with different 
c haract er istics, the requirements of paragraph 5.1.1 of this Regulation shall not apply , provided that all of 
the f ollowing conditions are met: 
5.2.4.2.1. The tyres fulfil the te chnical requirements and respect the transitional provis ions of either Regulation No 
75 or Regulation No 106; and 
5.2.4.2.2. The type-approval author ity and tec hnical ser vice are satisfi ed that the tyres fi tte d are suitable f or the 
operating conditions of the vehicle. The nature of the exe mp tion and motivation of acceptance shall be 
stat ed in the tes t repor t as well as on the communication f or m of Annex 2. 
5.2.5. Spare wheels and tyres 
5.2.5.1. In cases where a vehicle is provid ed with a standard spare unit, it shall be of the same size as the tyres 
actually fitted to the vehicle. 
5.2.5.2. Ever y vehicle provi ded with a tem porar y-use spare unit or r un f lat tyres shall compl y with the tec hnical and 
transitional provi sions of Regulation No 64 with respect to the requirements concer ning the equipment of 
vehicles with tem porar y-use spare units and r un f lat tyres. 
If specific precautions hav e to be taken in order to fit a tem porar y-use spare unit to the vehicle (e.g. 
tem porar y use spare unit is only to be fi tted on the front axle and theref ore a front standard unit must fi rst 
be fi tt ed on the rear axle in order to address a malfunction of a rear standard unit) this shall be stat ed clearly 
in the vehicle o wner ’s handbook or any other communication means in the vehicle, and compl iance with 
the appropr iat e aspects of paragraph 5.2.1.3 of this Regulation shall be ver if ied. 
6. MODIFICA TION OF VEHICLE T YPE AND EXTENSION OF APPR O V AL 
6.1. Ever y modifi cation to an existing vehicle type shall be notified to the T ype Approval Auth or ity which 
appro ved the vehicle type. The T ype Approv al Auth or ity shall then either: 
(a) Decide, in consultation with the manufacturer , that a new type appro val is to be granted; or 
(b) Apply the procedure contained in paragraph 6.1.1 (Revision) and, if applicable, the procedure 
contained in paragraph 6.1.2 (Ext ension). 
6.1.1. Revision 
When par ticulars recorded in the inf or mation documents of Annex 1 have chang ed and the T ype Approval 
Aut hor ity considers that the modifications made are unlikely to hav e an appreciable adverse effe ct and that, 
in an y case, the vehicle still compl ies with the requirements, the modific ations shall be designate d a 
‘revision’; 
EN Offi cial Jour nal of the European Uni on 21.2.2020                                                                                                                                           L 48/65   
In such a case, the T ype Approv al A uthor ity shall issue the revised pag es of the inf or mation documents of 
Annex 1 as necessar y , marking each revised page to show clearly the nature of the modifi cation and the 
date of re-issue. A consolidate d, updated version of the inf or mation documents of Annex 1, accompanied 
by a detailed descr ip tion of the modifi cation, shall be deemed to meet this requirement. 
6.1.2. Exten sion 
The modifi cation shall be designate d an ‘ext ension’ if, in addition to the chang e of the par ticulars recorded 
in the inf or mation documents of Annex 1, 
(a) Fur ther inspections or tes ts are required; or 
(b) Any inf or mation on the communication document (with the excep tion of its attachm ents) has 
chang ed; or 
(c) Approval to a later ser ies of amendments is requested af ter its entr y into f orce. 
6.2. Confir mation or refusal of approval, specifying the alter ations, shall be communicat ed by the procedure 
specified in paragraph 4.3 abov e to the Contracting Par ties to the Agreement applying this Regulation. In 
addition, the index to the inf or mation documents and to the test repor ts, attached to the communication 
document of Annex 1, shall be amended according ly to show the date of the most recent revision or 
exte nsion. 
6.3. The T ype Approv al Aut hor ity issuing the extensi on of approval shall assign a ser ies number to each 
communication f or m drawn up f or such an extensi on. 
7. C ONFORMIT Y OF PR ODUCTION 
7.1. Procedures concer ning conf or mity of production shall conf or m to the g eneral provi sions defined in Ar ticle 
2 and Appendix 2 to the Agreement (E/ECE/324-E/ECE/TRANS/505/Rev .2) and meet the f ollo wing 
requirements: 
7.2. A vehicle approved pursuant to this Regulation shall be so manuf actured as to conf or m to the type 
appro ved by meeting the requirements of paragraph 5; 
7.3. The T ype Approval Auth or ity whic h has granted the approval ma y at an y time ver ify the conf or mity of 
control methods applicable to eac h production unit. The nor mal frequency of such inspections shall be 
once ever y two ye ars. 
8. PENAL TIES FOR NON-C ONFORMIT Y OF PR ODUCTION 
8.1. The approval granted in respect of a vehicle type pursuant to this Regulation ma y be withdrawn if the 
requirements laid down in paragraph 7 are not compl ied with. 
8.2. If a Contracting P ar ty withdraws an appro val it had previously grant ed, it shall f or thwith so notify the other 
Contracting Par ties applying this Regulation by sending them a communication f or m conf or ming to the 
model in Annex 1 to this Regulation. 
9. PR ODUCTION DEFINITIVEL Y DISC ONTINUED 
If the holder of the approval compl etely ceases to manufacture a type of vehicle approved in accordance 
with this Regulation, he shall so inf or m the author ity which grant ed the approval, which in tur n shall 
f or thwith inf or m the other Contracting P ar ties to the Agreement applying this Regulation by means of a 
communication f or m conf or ming to the model in Annex 1 to this Regulation. 