transitional provisions of UN Regulation No 10, 05 series of amendments or any 
later series of amendments.
7. MODIFICATION OF THE TYPE OF DEVICE FOR REVERSING MOTION AND EXTENSION OF TYPE APPROVAL
7.1. Every modification to an existing type of device for indirect vision including its connection to the bodywork 
shall be notified to the Type Approval Authority which approved the type of device for indirect vision. The 
Type Approval Authority shall then either:
EN Official Journal of the European Union 25.5.2021                                                                                                                                         L 184/25  
(a) Decide, in consultation with the manufacturer, that a new type-approval is to be granted; or
(b) Apply the procedure contained in paragraph 7.1.1. (Revision) and, if applicable, the procedure contained 
in paragraph 7.1.2. (Extension).
7.1.1. Revision
When particulars recorded in the information folder have changed and the Type Approval Authority considers 
that the modifications made are unlikely to have an appreciable adverse effect and that in any case the device 
for indirect vision still complies with the requirements, the modification shall be designated a ‘revision’.
In such a case, the Type Approval Authority shall issue the revised pages of the information folder as 
necessary, marking each revised page to show clearly the nature of the modification and the date of re-issue. 
A consolidated, updated version of the information folder, accompanied by a detailed description of the 
modification, shall be deemed to meet this requirement.
7.1.2. Extension
The modification shall be designated an ‘extension’ if, in addition to the change of the particulars recorded in 
the information folder;
(a) Further inspections or tests are required; or
(b) Any information on the communication document (with the exception of its attachments) has changed; or
(c) Approval to a later series of amendments is requested after its entry into force.
7.2. Confirmation or refusal of approval, specifying the alterations shall be communicated by the procedure 
specified in paragraph 5.3. above to the Parties to the Agreement which apply this Regulation. In addition, 
the index to the information package, attached to the communication document, shall be amended 
accordingly to show the date of the most recent revision or extension.
7.3. The Type Approval Authority issuing the extension of approval shall assign a series number to each 
communication form drawn up for such an extension.
8. CONFORMITY OF PRODUCTION
8.1. The conformity of production procedure shall comply with those set out in the Agreement, Schedule 1 (E/ 
ECE/TRANS/505/Rev.3).
8.2. Every device for indirect vision approved under this Regulation shall be so manufactured as to conform to the 
type approved by meeting the requirements set out in paragraph 6. above.
9. PENALTIES FOR NON-CONFORMITY OF PRODUCTION
9.1. The approval granted in respect of a type of device for indirect vision pursuant to this Regulation may be 
withdrawn if the requirement laid down in paragraph 8.1. above is not complied with or if the type of device 
for indirect vision did not satisfy the requirements prescribed in paragraph 8.2. above.
9.2. If a Contracting Party to the Agreement which applies this Regulation withdraws an approval it has previously 
granted, it shall forthwith so notify the other Contracting Parties applying this Regulation by means of a copy 
of the communication form bearing at the end, in large letters, the signed and dated annotation ‘APPROVAL 
WITHDRAWN’.
EN Official Journal of the European Union L 184/26                                                                                                                                         25.5.2021  
10. PRODUCTION DEFINITIVELY DISCONTINUED
If the holder of the approval completely ceases to manufacture a type of device for indirect vision approved in 
accordance with this Regulation, he shall so inform the Type Approval Authority which granted the approval. 
Upon receiving the relevant communication, the Authority shall inform thereof the other Parties to the 
Agreement applying this Regulation by means of a copy of the approval form bearing at the end, in large 
letters, the signed and dated annotation ‘PRODUCTION DISCONTINUED’.