Transitional provisions
ANNEXES
1. Communication
2. Arrangements of the approval mark
3. Procedure for determining the ‘
H’ point and the actual torso angle for seating positions in motor vehicles
4. Determination of the height and width of head restraints
5. Details of lines and measurements taken during tests
6. Test procedure for checking energy dissipation
7. Method for testing the strength of seat anchorages and their adjustment, locking and displacement systems
8. Determination of dimension ‘a’ of head restraint gaps
9. Test procedure for devices intended to protect the occupants against displacement of luggage
18.10.2019 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 266/1
1. SCOPE
This Regulation applies to:
(a) Vehicles of cat egor ies M 1 and N  (1) with regard to the strength of seats and their anchorages and with 
r
egard to their head restraints;
(b) Vehicles of cat egor ies M 2 and M 3 (1) with regard to seats not covered by Regulation N o 80,  in respect of 
t
he strength of seats and their anchorages, and in respect of their head restraints;
(c) Vehicles of category M 1 with regard to the design of the rear parts of seat backs and the design of devices 
intended
 to protect the occupants from the danger resulting from the displacement of luggage in a frontal 
impact.
It does not apply to vehicles with regard to side-facing or rearward-facing seats, or to any head restraint fitted 
to
 these seats.
2. DEFINITIONS
For the purposes of this Regulation,
2.1. ‘Approval of a  vehicle’ means the approval of a vehicle type with regard to the strength of the seats and their 
anc
horages, the design of the rear parts of the seat-backs and the characteristics of their head restraints;
2.2. ‘Vehicle type’ means a category of motor vehicles which do not differ in such essential respects as:
2.2.1. The
 structure, shape, dimensions, materials and the mass of the seats, although the seats may differ in cover­
ing and colour ;
 differences not exceeding 5 per cent in the mass of the approved seat type shall not be con­
sidered significant;
2.2.2. The type and dimensions of the adjustment, displacement and locking systems of the seat-back and seats and 
their
 parts;
2.2.3. The type and dimensions of the seat anchorages;
2.2.4. The dimensions, fr ame,  materials and padding of head restraints, although they may differ in colour and 
covering;
2.2.5. The type and dimensions of t he  attachments of the head restraint and the characteristics of the part of the 
vehicle to which the head restraint is attached, in the case of a separate head restr aint;
2.3. ‘Seat’ means a s tructure which  may or may not be integral with the vehicle structure complete with trim, 
intended to seat one person. Depending on its orientation, a s eat is defined as follows:
2.3.1. ‘Forward-facing seat’  means a seat which can be used whilst the vehicle is in motion and which faces towards 
t
he front of the vehicle in such a manner that the vertical plane of symmetry of the seat forms an angle of 
less
 than + 10 ° or – 10  ° with the vertical plane of symmetry of the v ehicle;
2.3.2. ‘Rearward-facing seat ’ means a seat whic h can be used whilst the vehicle is in motion and which faces 
t
owards the rear of the vehicle in such a manner that the vertical plane of symmetry of the seat forms an 
ang
le of less than + 10  ° or – 10  ° with the vertical plane of symmetry of the v ehicle;
2.3.3. ‘Side-facing seat ’ means a seat which can be used whilst the vehicle is in motion and which faces towards the 
side
 of the vehicle in such a m anner that the vertical plane of symmetry of the seat forms an angle of 90 ° 
(
± 10  °) with the vertical plane of symmetry of the vehicle;
(1) As defined in the Consolidated Resolution on the Construction of Vehicles (R.E.3.), document ECE/TRANS/WP.29/78/Rev.6, para. 2 — 
http://www
.unece.org/trans/main/wp29/wp29wgs/wp29gen/wp29resolutions.html
L 266/2 EN Official Journal of the European Union 18.10.2019
2.4. ‘Bench seat’ means a structure complete with trim, intended to seat more than one adult person;
2.5. ‘Anchorage’ means t he system by which the seat assembly is secured to the vehicle structure, including the 
affected parts of the vehicle structure;
2.6. ‘Adjustment system ’ means t he device by which the seat or its parts can be adjusted to a position suit ed to 
the morphology of the seated occupant. This device may, in particular, permit:
2.6.1. Longitudinal displacement;
2.6.2. Vertical displacement;
2.6.3. Angular displacement;
2.7. ‘Displacement system ’ means a device b y which the seat or one of its parts can be displaced and/or rotated, 
without a fixed int ermediate position, to permit easy access of occupants to the space behind the seat 
concerned;
2.8. ‘Locking system’ means a d evice ensuring that the seat and its parts are maintained in the position of use;
2.9. ‘Folding seat’  means a s eat, whic h is normally folded, can be easily operated and is designed for occasional 
use by an occupant;
2.10. ‘Transverse plane’  means a vertical plane perpendicular to the median longitudinal plane of the vehicle;
2.11. ‘Longitudinal plane’  means a plane parallel to the median longitudinal plane of the vehicle;
2.12. ‘Head restraint ’ means a device whose pur pose is to limit the rearward displacement of an adult occupant’s 
head in relation to his torso in order to reduce the danger of injury to the cervical vertebrae in the event of 
an accident;
2.12.1. ‘Integrated head restraint ’ means a head restr aint formed by the upper part of the seat-back. Head restraints 
meeting the definitions of paragraphs 2.12.2 or 2.12.3 belo w but which can only be detached from the seat 
or the vehicle structure by the use of tools or by partial or complete removal of the seat covering, meet the 
present definition;
2.12.2. ‘Detachable head restraint ’ means a h ead restraint consisting of a component separ able from the seat 
designed for insertion and positive retention in the seat-back structure;
2.12.3. ‘Separate head restraint ’ means a head restr aint consisting of a component separ ate from the seat, designed 
for insertion and/or positive retention in the structure of the vehicle;
2.13. ‘R point ’ means the seating reference point as defined in Annex 3,  Appendix 3  to this Regulation;
2.14. ‘Reference line ’ means t he line on the manikin reproduced in Annex 3,  Appendix 1,  Figure 1,  t o this 
Regulation.
2.15. ‘Partitioning system ’ means par ts or devices which, in addition to the seat-backs, are intended to protect the 
occupants from displaced luggage; in particular, a p artitioning syst em may be constituted by netting or wire 
mesh located above the level of the seat-backs in their upright or folded down position. Head restraints fitted 
as standard equipment for vehicles equipped with such parts or devices shall be considered as part of the 
partitioning system. However, a seat eq uipped with a head restr aint shall not be considered as being on its 
own a p artitioning system.
3. APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL
3.1. The application f or approval of a v ehicle type shall be submitt ed by the vehicle manufacturer or by his duly 
accredited representative.
3.2. It shall be accompanied by the following documents in triplicate and the following particulars:
18.10.2019 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 266/3
3.2.1. A detailed descr iption of the vehicle type with regard to the design of the seats, their anchorages, and their 
adjus
tment, displacement and locking systems;
3.2.1.1. A detailed description and/or drawings of the partitioning system, if applicable.
3.2.2. Drawings, on an appr opr iate scale and in sufficient detail, of the seats, their anchorages on the vehicle, and 
their adjustment, displacement and locking systems.
3.2.3. In the case of a s eat with a d etachable head restr aint:
3.2.3.1. A detailed descr iption of the head restraint, specifying in particular the nature of the padding material or 
mat
erials;
3.2.3.2. A d etailed descr ip tion of the location, the type of support and the attachments for mounting the head 
restraint on the seat.
3.2.4. In the case of a s eparate head restr aint:
3.2.4.1. A detailed descr ip tion of the head restraint, specifying in particular the nature of the padding material or 
materials;
3.2.4.2. A detailed descr iption of the location, and the attachments for fitting the head restraint to the structure of 
t
he vehicle.
3.3. The following shall be submitted to the Technical Service responsible for the approval tests:
3.3.1. A vehicle r epresentative of the vehicle type to be approved or the parts of the vehicle which the Technical 
Ser
vice deems necessary for approval tests;
3.3.2. An additional set of the seats with which the vehicle is equipped, with their anchorages.
3.3.3. For v ehicles with seats fitted or capable of being fitted with head restraints, in addition to the requirements 
se
t out in paragraphs 3.3.1 and 3.3.2 above:
3.3.3.1. In the case of detachable head restraints: an additional set of seats, fitted with head restraints, with which the 
vehicle
 is equipped, together with their anchorages.
3.3.3.2. In the case of separate head restraints: an additional set of the seats with which the vehicle is equipped, with 
their
 anchorages, an additional set of the corresponding head restraints and the part of the vehicle structure 
to which the head restraint in fitted, or a complete s tructure.
4. APPROVAL
4.1. If the vehicle submitted for approval pursuant to this Regulation meets the relevant requirements (seats fitted 
with
 head restraints or capable of being fitted with head restraints), approval of the vehicle type shall be 
granted.
4.2. An appr oval number shall be assigned to each type approved. Its first two digits (at present 09, correspond­
ing
 to the 09 series of amendments) shall indicate the series of amendments incorporating the most recent 
major technical amendments made to the Regulation at the time of issue of the approval. The same Contract­
ing Party may not assign the same number either to the same vehicle type equipped with other types of seats 
or head restraints or with seats anchored differently on the vehicle (this applies both to seats with and to 
those without head restraints) or to another vehicle type.
4.3. Notice of appr o
 val or extension or refusal of approval of a vehicle type pursuant to this Regulation shall be 
communicat
ed to the Parties to the Agreement applying this Regulation by means of a form conforming to 
t
he model in Annex 1  to this Regulation.
4.4. There shall be affixed, conspicuously and in a r eadily accessible place specified on the approval form, to every 
vehicle
 conforming to a vehicle type approved under this Regulation, an international approval mark consist­
ing of:
4.4.1. A
 c ircle sur rounding the letter ‘ E’ followed by the distinguishing number of the country which has granted 
appr
oval (2);
(2) The distinguishing numbers of the Contracting Parties to the 1958 Agreement are reproduced in Annex 3 to the Consolidated Resolu­
tion 
on the Construction of Vehicles (R.E.3), document ECE/TRANS/WP.29/78/Rev. 6, Annex 3  — http://www.unece.org/trans/main/
wp29/wp29wgs/wp29gen/wp29resolutions.html
L 266/4 EN Official Journal of the European Union 18.10.2019
4.4.2. The number of this Regulation, followed by the letter ‘R’, a dash and the approval number, to the right of the 
circle
 prescribed in paragraph 4.4.1 above.
4.4.3. However, if t he  vehicle is equipped with one or more seats fitted or capable of being fitted with head 
restraints, approved as meeting the requirements under paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2 below, the number of this 
R
egulation shall be followed by the letters ‘RA’. The form conforming to the model in Annex 1  to this Regu­
lation shall indicate
 which seat(s) of the vehicle is (are) fitted or capable of being fitted with head restraints. 
The marking shall also indicate that any remaining seats in the vehicle, not fitted or capable of being fitted 
with head restraints, are approved and meet the requirements of paragraph 5.1 below of this Regulation.
4.5. If t he vehicle conforms to a  vehicle type appro ved under one or more other Regulations annexed to the 
Agreement in the country which has granted approval under this Regulation, the symbol prescribed in para­
graph 4.4.1 above need not be repeated; in such a  c ase the Regulation and approval numbers and the addi­
tional
 symbols of all the Regulations under which approval has been granted in the country which has 
granted approval under this Regulation shall be placed in vertical columns to the right of the symbol pre­
scribed in paragraph 4.4.1 above.
4.6. The approval mark shall be clearly legible and be indelible.
4.7. The approval mark shall be placed close to or on the vehicle data plate affixed by the manufacturer.
4.8. Examples of arrangements of approval marks are given in Annex 2  to this Regulation.
5. REQUIREMENTS
5.1. General requirements
5.1.1. The installation of side-facing seats shall be prohibited in vehicles of categories M 1, N 1, M 2 (of class II, III and 
B) and M 3 of a technically permissible laden mass not exceeding 10 tonnes (of class II, III and B).
5.1.2. It does no t apply to ambulances or to vehicles intended for use by the armed services, civil defence, fire 
ser
vices and forces responsible for maintaining public order.
5.2. General requirements applicable to all seats of vehicles of category M 1 (3)
5.2.1. Every adjus tment and displacement system provided shall incorporate a  locking system, which shall operate 
aut
omatically.
Locking systems for armrests or other comfort devices are not necessary unless the presence of such devices 
will
 cause additional risk of injury to the occupants of a vehicle in the event of a collision.
Folding seats shall lock automatically in the position of use by occupants.
5.2.2. The unloc king control for a  device as referred to in paragraph 2.7 of this Regulation shall be placed on the 
outside
 of the seat close to the door. It shall be easily accessible, even to the occupant of the seat immediately 
behind the seat concerned.
5.2.3. The rear parts of seats situated in area 1, defined in paragraph 6.8.1.1 below shall pass the energy dissipation 
test
 in accordance with the requirements of Annex 6  to this Regulation.
5.2.3.1. This requirement is deemed to be met if in the tests carried out by the procedure specified in Annex 6  to this 
Regulation
 the deceleration of the headform does not exceed 80 g  continuously for more than 3 ms. More­
o
ver, no dangerous edge shall occur during or remain after the test.
5.2.3.2. The r equirements of paragraph 5.2.3 shall not apply to rearmost seats, to back-to-back seats or to seats that 
com
ply with the provisions of Regulation No 21  ‘Uniform Provisions concerning the Approval of Vehicles 
wit
h regard to their Interior Fittings ’ (E/ECE/324-E/ECE/TRANS/505/Rev.1/Add.20/Rev.2, as last amended).
(3) Vehicles of category M 2, which are approved to this Regulation as an alternative to Regulation No 80  (in line with paragraph 1.2 to 
that
 Regulation) shall also meet the requirements of this paragraph.
18.10.2019 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 266/5
5.2.4. The sur face of the rear parts of seats shall exhibit no dangerous roughness or sharp edges likely to increase 
the risk of severity of injury to the occupants. This requirement is considered as satisfied if the surface of the 
rear parts of seats tested in the conditions specified in paragraph 6.1 below exhibit radii of curvature not less 
than:
2,5 mm in area 1,
5,0 mm in area 2,
3,2 mm in area 3.
These areas are defined in paragraph 6.8.1 below.
5.2.4.1. This requirement does not apply to:
5.2.4.1.1. the par ts of the different areas exhibiting a p rojection of less t han 3,2 m m fr om the surrounding surface, 
which shall exhibit blunted edges, provided that the height of the projection is not more than half its width;
5.2.4.1.2. Rearmost seats, t o back-to-back seats or to seats that comply with the provisions of Regulation No 21  ‘Uni­
f
orm Provisions concerning the Approval of Vehicles with regard to their Interior Fittings ’ 
(E/ECE/324-E/ECE/TRANS/505/Rev.1/Add.20/Rev.2, as last amended);
5.2.4.1.3. Rear parts of seats situated below a h orizontal plane passing through the lowest R p oint in each row of seats. 
(Wher
e rows of seats have different heights, starting from the rear, the plane shall be turned up or down 
forming a vertical step passing through the R p oint of the row of seats immediately in front);
5.2.4.1.4. Parts such as ‘flexible wire mesh’.
5.2.4.2. In area 2, def ined in paragraph 6.8.1.2 belo w, surfaces may exhibit radii less than 5 mm, but no t less than 
2,5 mm pr ovided that they pass the energy-dissipation test prescribed in Annex 6  t o this Regulation. More­
over, these surfaces shall be padded to avoid direct contact of the head with the seat frame structure.
5.2.4.3. If t he areas defined above contain parts covered with material softer than 50 Shore A h ardness, t he above 
requirements, with the exception of those relating to the energy-dissipation test in accordance with the 
requirements of Annex 6,  shall apply only to the rigid parts.
5.2.5. No f ailure shall be shown in the seat frame or in the seat anchorage, the adjustment and displacement sys­
tems or their locking devices during or after the tests prescribed in paragraphs 6.2 and 6.3 below. Permanent 
def
ormations, including ruptures, may be accepted, provided that these do not increase the risk of injury in 
the event of a c ollision and the prescribed loads were sustained.
5.2.6. No r elease of the locking systems shall occur during the tests described in paragraph 6.3 belo w and in 
Annex 9,  paragraph 2.1 to this Regulation.
5.2.7. After t he tests, the displacement systems intended for permitting or facilitating the access of occupants shall 
be in working order; they shall be capable, at least once, of being unlocked and shall permit the displacement 
of the seat or the part of the seat for which they are intended.
Any other displacement systems, as well as adjustment systems and their locking systems are not required to 
be
 in working order.
In t he case of seats provided with head restraints, the strength of the seat-back and of its locking devices is 
deemed to meet the requirements set out in paragraph 6.2 when, af ter testing in accordance with paragraph 
6.4.3.6 below, no breakage of the seat or seat-back has occurred: otherwise, it shall be shown that the seat is 
capable
 of meeting the test requirements set out in paragraph 6.2 below.
In t he case of seats (benches) with more places to sit than head restraints and in case the manufacturer 
chooses not to apply 53 daNm during the test of paragraph 6.4, the seat back strength test of paragraph 6.2 
has to be performed in addition to the test of paragraph 6.4.
L 266/6 EN Official Journal of the European Union 18.10.2019
5.3. General specif ications applicable to seats of vehicles of categories N 1, N 2 and N 3 and t o seats of vehicles of 
categories M 2 and M 3 not covered by Regulation No 80.
With t he exception of the provisions of paragraph 5.1, t he requirements also apply to side-facing seats of all 
categories of vehicles.
5.3.1. Seats and bench seats shall be firmly attached to the vehicle.
5.3.2. Sliding seats and bench seats shall be automatically lockable in all the positions provided.
5.3.3. Adjustable seat-backs shall be lockable in all the positions provided.
5.3.4. All seats which can be tipped forward or have fold-on backs and folding seats shall lock automatically in the 
position
 of use by occupants.
These req uirements do not apply to folding seats fitted in wheelchair spaces or areas for standing passengers 
of vehicles of category M 2 or M 3 of Class I, II or A a nd folding seat(s) fitted in the access passages of vehicles 
of category M 2 or M3.
5.4. Mounting of head restraints
5.4.1. A h ead restraint shall be mounted on every outboard front seat in every vehicle of category M 1. Seats f itted 
with head restraints, intended for fitment in other seating positions and in other categories of vehicles may 
also be approved to this Regulation.
5.4.2. A head r estraint shall be mounted on every outboard front seat in every vehicle of category M 2 wit h 
a maximum mass not exceeding 3 500 kg and of category N 1; head restraints mounted in such vehicles shall 
com
ply with the requirements of Regulation No 25,  as amended by 04 series of amendments.
5.5. Special requirements for seats fitted or capable of being fitted with head restraints
5.5.1. The pr esence of the head restraint shall not be an additional cause of danger to occupants of the vehicle. In 
particular, it shall not in any position of use exhibit any dangerous roughness or sharp edge liable to increase 
the risk or seriousness of injury to the occupants.
5.5.1.1. Parts of the front and rear faces of head restraints situated in area 1 as defined in paragraph 6.8.1.1.3 below, 
shall be so padded as t
o prevent any direct contact of the head with the components of the structure and 
shall meet the requirements of paragraph 5.2.4 above.
5.5.1.2. Parts of t he front and rear faces of head restraints situated in area 2, as defined in paragraph 6.8.1.2 belo w, 
shall be so padded as to prevent any direct contact of the head with the components of the structure and 
shall meet the requirements of paragraph 5.2.4 abo ve applicable to the rear parts of seats situated in area 
2. In  t he case of head restraints integrated with the seat back, the front face of the head restraint is consid­
ered as the area located above a plane per pendicular to the reference line at 540 m m fr om the R p oint and 
be
tween two vertical longitudinal planes at 85 m m on either side of the reference line.
5.5.2. Parts of t he front and rear faces of the head restraints situated in area 1, as defined in paragraph 6.8.1.1.3 
below shall pass the energy absorption test.
5.5.2.1. This req uirement is deemed to be met if in the tests carried out by the procedure specified in Annex 6  t he 
deceleration of the headform does not exceed 80 g  continuousl y for more than 3 ms. Moreover, no danger­
ous edge shall occur during or remain after the test.
5.5.3. The req uirements of paragraphs 5.5.1 and 5.5.2 abo ve, shall not apply to rear parts of head restraints 
designed to be fitted to seats behind which no seat is provided.
5.5.4. The head restr aints shall be secured to the seat or to the vehicle structure in such a w ay t hat no rigid and 
dangerous parts project from the padding of the head restraint or from its attachments to the seat-back as 
a result of the pressure exerted by the headform during the test.
18.10.2019 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 266/7
5.5.5. In the case of a s eat fitted with head restraints, the provisions of paragraph 5.2.3 may, after agreement of the 
T
echnical Service, be considered to be met if the seat fitted with its head restraint complies with the provi­
sions of paragraph 5.5.2 above.
5.6. Height of head restraints
5.6.1. The height of head restraints shall be measured as described in paragraph 6.5 below.
5.6.2. For head r estraints not adjustable for height, the height shall be not less than 800 mm in t he case of front 
seats and 750 m m in the case of other seats.
5.6.3. For head restraints adjustable for height:
5.6.3.1. The height shall be no t less than 800 m m in t he case of front seats and 750 m m in t he case of other seats; 
this value shall be obtained in a position be tween the highest and lowest positions to which adjustment is 
possible;
5.6.3.2. There shall be no ‘use position’  resulting in a height of less than 750 mm;
5.6.3.3. In t he case of seats other than the front seats the head restraints may be such that they can be displaced to 
a position r esulting in a height of less t han 750 m m, pr ovided that such position is clearly recognisable to 
the occupant as not being included for the use of the head restraint;
5.6.3.4. In the case of front seats head restraints may be such that they can be automatically displaced when the seat 
is no
t occupied, to a position r esulting in a height of less t han 750 mm, pr ovided that they automatically 
return to the position of use when the seat is occupied.
5.6.4. The dimensions mentioned in par agraphs 5.6.2 and 5.6.3.1 abo ve may be less than 800 m m in t he case of 
front seats and 750 m m in the case of other seats to leave adequate clearance between the head restraint and 
t
he interior surface of the roof, the windows or any part of the vehicle structure; however, the clearance shall 
not exceed 25 mm. In t he case of seats fitted with displacement and/or adjustment systems, this shall apply 
to all seat positions. Furthermore, by derogation to paragraph 5.6.3.2 above, there shall not be any ‘use posi­
tion’ resulting in a h eight lower than 700 mm.
5.6.5. By derogation to the height requirements mentioned in paragraphs 5.6.2 and 5.6.3.1 above, the height of any 
head restr
aint designed to be provided in rear centre seats or seating positions shall be not less than 
700 mm.
5.7. In t he case of a s eat capable of being f itted with a head restr aint, the provisions of paragraphs 5.2.3 and 
5.5.2 above shall be verified.
5.7.1. The height of the part of the device on which the head rests, measured as described in paragraph 6.5 below, 
shall
 in the case of a head restraint adjustable for height be not less than 100 mm.
5.8. There shall be no g ap of more than 60 mm be tween the seat-back and the head restraint in the case of 
a device no t adjustable for height. If the head restraint is adjustable for height it shall, in its lowest position, 
be not more than 25 mm fr om the top of the seat-back. In the case of seats or bench seats adjustable in 
height provided with separate head restraints, this requirement shall be verified for all the positions of the 
seat or bench seat.
5.9. In the case of head restraints integral with the seat-back, the area to be considered is:
Above a plane perpendicular to the reference line at 540 mm from the R point.
Between tw o vertical longitudinal planes passing at 85 mm on eit her side of the reference line. In this area, 
one or more gaps which regardless of their shape can show a distance ‘a’ of more t han 60 m m when mea­
sured as descr
ibed in paragraph 6.7 belo w, are permitted provided that, after the additional test under para­
graph 6.4.3.3.2 below, the requirements of paragraph 5.12 below are still met.
5.10. In t he case of head restraints adjustable for height one or more gaps, which regardless of their shape can 
show a distance ‘a’ of more than 60 mm when measured as described in paragraph 6.7 below, are permitted 
on t
he part of the device serving as a h ead r estraint provided that, after the additional test under paragraph 
6.4.3.3.2 below, the requirements of paragraph 5.12 below are still met.
L 266/8 EN Official Journal of the European Union 18.10.2019
5.11. The widt h of the head restraint shall be such as to provide appropriate support for the head of a p erson 
nor
mally seated. As determined according to the procedure described in paragraph 6.6 belo w, the head 
restraint shall cover an area extending not less than 85 mm t o each side of the vertical median plane of the 
seat for which the head restraint is intended.
5.12. The head restr aint and its anchorage shall be such that the maximum backward displacement X of t he head 
permitted by the head restraint and measured in conformity with the static procedure laid down in paragraph 
6.4.3 below, is less than 102 mm.
5.13. The head r estraint and its anchorage shall be strong enough to bear without breakage the load specified in 
paragraph 6.4.3.6 belo w. In the case of head restraints integral with the seat-back, the requirements of this 
paragraph shall apply to the part of the seat-back structure situated above a p lane perpendicular to the refer­
ence
 line at 540 m m from the R point.
5.14. If t he head restraint is adjustable, it shall not be possible to raise it beyond the maximum operational height 
except by deliberate action on the part of the user distinct from any act necessary for its adjustment.
5.15. The s trength of the seat-back and of its locking devices is deemed to meet the requirements set out in para­
graph 6.2 belo w when, after testing in accordance with paragraph 6.4.3.6 belo w, no breakage of the seat or 
seat-back has occurred; otherwise, it shall be shown that the seat is capable of meeting the test requirements 
set out in paragraph 6.2 below.
5.16. Special requirements regarding the protection of occupants from displaced luggage
5.16.1. Seat-backs
Seat-backs and/or head restraints located such that they constitute the forward boundary of the luggage com­
par
tment, all seats being in place and in the normal position of use as indicated by the manufacturer, shall 
have sufficient strength to protect the occupants from displaced luggage in a f rontal impact. This requirement 
is deemed to be met if, during and after the test described in Annex 9,  the seat-backs remain in position, and 
t
he locking mechanisms remain in place. However, the deformation of the seat-backs and their fastenings 
during the test is permitted, provided that the forward contour of the parts of the tested seat-back and/or 
head restraints, that are harder than 50 Shore A, does not move forward of a transverse vertical plane which 
passes
 through:
(a) A point of 150 mm forward of the R point of the seat in question, for the parts of the head restraint;
(b) A p oint of 100 mm forward of the R p oint of the seat in question, for parts of the seat-back;
excluding the rebound phases of the test blocks.
For int egrated head restraints, the limit between the head restraint and the seat-back is defined by the pla