TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS 
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      12.1. 
                   
                   
                      As from the official date of entry into force of the 02 series of amendments, no Contracting Party applying this Regulation shall refuse to grant ECE approvals under this Regulation as amended by the 02 series of amendments. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      12.2. 
                   
                   
                      As from 24 months after the date of entry into force of the 02 series of amendments, Contracting Parties applying this Regulation shall grant ECE approval only if the vehicle type to be approved complies with the requirements of this Regulation as amended by the 02 series of amendments. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      12.3. 
                   
                   
                      As from 36 months after the date of entry into force of the 02 series of amendments, existing approvals to this Regulation shall cease to be valid, except in the case of vehicle types which comply with the requirements of this Regulation as amended by the 02 series of amendments. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      12.4. 
                   
                   
                      As from the official date of entry into force of the 03 series of amendments, no Contracting Party applying this Regulation shall refuse to grant approval under this Regulation as amended by the 03 series of amendments. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      12.5. 
                   
                   
                      As from 24 months after the date of entry into force of the 03 series of amendments, Contracting Parties applying this Regulation shall grant approvals only if the vehicle type to be approved meets the requirements of this Regulation as amended by the 03 series of amendments. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      12.6. 
                   
                   
                      Until 48 months after the date of entry into force the 03 series of amendments to this Regulation, no Contracting Party applying this Regulation shall refuse national type approval of a vehicle type approved to the preceding series of amendments to this Regulation. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      12.7. 
                   
                   
                      Starting 48 months after the entry into force to the 03 series of amendments to this Regulation, Contracting Parties applying this Regulation may refuse first national registration (first entry into service) of a vehicle which does not meet the requirements of the 03 series of amendments to this Regulation. 
                   
                
             
          
          
          
             ( 1 )   As defined in Annex 7 of the Consolidated Resolution on the Construction of Vehicles (R.E.3) (document TRANS/SC1/WP29/78/Amend.3). 
          
             ( 2 )   1 for Germany, 2 for France, 3 for Italy, 4 for the Netherlands, 5 for Sweden, 6 for Belgium, 7 for Hungary, 8 for the Czech , 9 for Spain, 10 for Serbia and Montenegro, 11 for the United Kingdom, 12 for Austria, 13 for Luxembourg, 14 for Switzerland, 15 (vacant), 16 for Norway, 17 for Finland, 18 for Denmark, 19 for Romania, 20 for Poland, 21 for Portugal, 22 for the Russian Federation, 23 for Greece, 24 for Ireland, 25 for Croatia, 26 for Slovenia, 27 for Slovakia, 28 for Belarus, 29 for Estonia, 30 (vacant), 31 for Bosnia and Herzegovina, 32 for Latvia, 33 (vacant), 34 for Bulgaria, 35 (vacant), 36 for Lithuania, 37 for Turkey, 38 (vacant), 39 for Azerbaijan, 40 for The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, 41 (vacant), 42 for the European Community (Approvals are granted by its Member States using their respective ECE symbol), 43 for Japan, 44 (vacant), 45 for Australia and 46 for Ukraine, 47 for South Africa, 48 for New Zealand, 49 for Cyprus, 50 for Malta and 51 for the Republic of Korea. Subsequent numbers shall be assigned to other countries in the chronological order in which they ratify the Agreement Concerning the Adoption of Uniform Technical Prescriptions for Wheeled Vehicles, Equipment and Parts which can be Fitted and/or be Used on Wheeled Vehicles and the Conditions for Reciprocal Recognition of Approval Granted on the Basis of these Prescriptions, and the numbers thus assigned shall be communicated by the Secretary-General of the United Nations to the Contracting Parties to the Agreement. 
       
       
       
          
             ANNEX 1 
             
                COMMUNICATION 
             
             (maximum format: A4 (210 × 297 mm)) 
             
                
                   
                
             
             Text of image 
             
                issued by: 
                Name of administration: 
                concerning ( 2 ): 
                APPROVAL GRANTED 
                APPROVAL EXTENDED 
                APPROVAL REFUSED 
                APPROVAL WITHDRAWN 
                PRODUCTION DEFINITELY DISCONTINUED 
                of a vehicle type with regard to its external projections, pursuant to Regulation No 26. 
                Approval No … 
                Extension No … 
                1. Trade name or mark of the motor vehicle … 
                2. Vehicle Type … 
                3. Manufacturer’s name and address … 
                4. If applicable, name and address of manufacturer’s representative … 
                5. Vehicle submitted for approval on … 
                6. Technical service responsible for conducting approval tests … 
                7. Date of report issued by that service … 
                8. Number of report issued by that service … 
                9. Approval granted/refused/extended/withdrawn ( 2 ) … 
                10. Reason(s) for the extension of approval (if applicable) … 
                11. Position of approval mark on the vehicle … 
                12. Place … 
                13. Date … 
                14. Signature … 
                15. The list of documents filed with the administration service which has granted approval and available on request is attached to this communication. 
                ( 1 ) Distinguishing number of the country which has granted/extended/refused/withdrawn approval (see approval provisions in the Regulation). 
                ( 2 ) Strike out what does not apply. 
             
          
       
       
       
          
             ANNEX 2 
             
                ARRANGEMENTS OF APPROVAL MARKS 
             
             MODEL A 
             (See paragraphs 4.1.4 and 4.2.4 of this Regulation) 
             
                
                   
                   
                
             
             MODEL B 
             (See paragraph 4.1.5 of this Regulation) 
             
                
                   
                   
                
             
             
             
                ( 1 )   The second Regulation number is given merely as an example; the corrected absorption coefficient is 1,30 m-1. 
          
       
       
       
          
             ANNEX 3 
             
                Methods of determining the dimensions of projections and gaps 
             
             1.   METHOD OF DETERMINING THE HEIGHT OF THE PROJECTION OF FOLDS IN BODY PANELS 
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         1.1. 
                      
                      
                         The height H of a projection is determined graphically by reference to the circumference of a 165 mm diameter circle, internally tangential to the external outline of the external surface at the section to be checked. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         1.2. 
                      
                      
                         H is the maximum value of the distance, measured along a straight line passing through the centre of the 165 mm diameter circle between the circumference of the aforesaid circle and the external contour of the projection (see Figure 1). 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         1.3. 
                      
                      
                         In cases where it is not possible for a 100 mm diameter circle to contact externally part of the external outline of the external surface at the section under consideration, the surface outline in this area will be assumed to be that formed by the circumference of the 100 mm diameter circle between its tangent points with the external outline (see Figure 2). 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         1.4. 
                      
                      
                         Drawings of the necessary sections through the external surface shall be provided by the manufacturer to allow the height of the projections referred to above to be measured. 
                         
                            
                            
                            
                               
                                  
                                     
                                        Figure 1 
                                     
                                  
                                  
                                     
                                        Figure 2 
                                     
                                  
                               
                               
                                  
                                     
                                        
                                           
                                        
                                     
                                  
                                  
                                     
                                        
                                           
                                        
                                     
                                  
                               
                            
                         
                      
                   
                
             
             2.   METHOD OF DETERMINING THE DIMENSION OF THE PROJECTION OF A COMPONENT MOUNTED ON THE EXTERNAL SURFACE 
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         2.1. 
                      
                      
                         The dimension of the projection of a component which is mounted on a convex surface may be determined either directly or by reference to a drawing of an appropriate section of this component in its installed condition. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         2.2. 
                      
                      
                         If the dimension of the projection of a component which is mounted on a surface other than convex cannot be determined by simple measurement, it shall be determined by the maximum variation of the distance of the centre of a 100 mm diameter sphere from the nominal line of the panel when the sphere is moved over and is in constant contact with that component. Figure 3 shows an example of the use of this procedure. 
                      
                   
                
             
             3.   METHOD OF DETERMINING THE PROJECTION OF HEADLAMP VISORS AND RIMS 
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         3.1. 
                      
                      
                         The projection from the external surface of the headlamp shall be measured horizontally from the point of contact of a 100 mm diameter sphere as shown in Figure 4. 
                      
                   
                
             
             4.   METHOD OF DETERMINING THE DIMENSION OF A GAP OR THE SPACE BETWEEN ELEMENTS OF A GRILLE 
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         4.1. 
                      
                      
                         The dimension of a gap or space between elements of a grille shall be determined by the distance between two planes passing through the points of contact of the sphere and perpendicular to the line joining those points of contact. Figures 5 and 6 show examples of the use of this procedure. 
                         
                            
                            
                            
                               
                                  
                                     
                                        Figure 3 
                                     
                                  
                                  
                                     
                                        Figure 4 
                                     
                                  
                               
                               
                                  
                                     
                                        
                                           
                                        
                                     
                                  
                                  
                                     
                                        
                                           
                                        
                                     
                                  
                               
                               
                                  
                                     
                                        Figure 5 
                                     
                                  
                                  
                                     
                                        Figure 6 
                                     
                                  
                               
                               
                                  
                                     
                                        
                                           
                                        
                                     
                                  
                                  
                                     
                                        
                                           
                                        
                                     
                                  
                               
                               
                                  
                                     Key 
                                     Dia.=  
                                       
                                     measured projection=  
                                       
                                     visor=  
                                       
                                     Headlamp glass=  
                                       
                                     measured gap=  
                                       
                                  
                               
                            
                         
                      
                   
                
             
          
       
       
       
          
             ANNEX 4 
             
                COMMUNICATION 
             
             (maximum format: A4 (210 × 297 mm)) 
             
                
                   
                
             
             Text of image 
             
                issued by: 
                Name of administration: 
                concerning ( 2 ): 
                APPROVAL GRANTED 
                APPROVAL EXTENDED 
                APPROVAL REFUSED 
                APPROVAL WITHDRAWN 
                PRODUCTION DEFINITELY DISCONTINUED 
                of a separate technical unit type of luggage rack, ski rack or radio receiving or transmitting aerial ( 2 ) 
                Approval No … 
                Extension No … 
                1. Trade name or mark: … 
                2. Type: … 
                3. Manufacturer’s name and address: … 
                4. If applicable, name and address of manufacturer’s representative: … 
                5. Characteristics of the separate technical unit: … 
                6. Limitations of use, if any, and assembly instructions: … 
                7. Specimen required for approval of a separate technical unit submitted on: … 
                8. Technical service conducting approval test: … 
                9. Date of report issued by that service: … 
                10. Number of report issued by that service: … 
                11. Approval for separate technical unit has been granted/refused/extended/withdrawn ( 2 ) in respect of luggage rack(s), ski rack(s), radio receiving or transmitting aerial(s) ( 2 ) … 
                12. Place: … 
                13. Date: … 
                14. Signature: … 
                15. The list of documents filed with the administration service which has granted approval and available on request is attached to this communication. 
                ( 1 ) Distinguishing number of the country which has granted/extended/refused/withdrawn approval (see approval provisions in the Regulation). 
                ( 2 ) Strike out what does not apply. 
             
          
       
       
    
 