Transitional provisions 
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      17.1. 
                   
                   
                      As from the official date of entry into force of the 04 series of amendments, no Contracting Party applying this UN Regulation shall refuse to grant or refuse to accept type approvals under this UN Regulation as amended by the 04 series of amendments. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      17.2. 
                   
                   
                      As from 1 September 2026, Contracting Parties applying this UN Regulation shall not be obliged to accept type approvals to the preceding series of amendments, first issued after 1 September 2026. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      17.3. 
                   
                   
                      Contracting Parties applying this UN Regulation shall continue to accept type approvals issued according to the 02 and 03 series of amendments to this UN Regulation first issued before 1 September 2026. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      17.4 
                   
                   
                      Contracting Parties applying this UN Regulation may grant type approvals according to any preceding series of amendments to this UN Regulation. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      17.5. 
                   
                   
                      Contracting Parties applying this UN Regulation shall continue to grant extensions of existing approvals to any preceding series of amendments to this UN Regulation. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      17.6. 
                   
                   
                      Notwithstanding the transitional provisions above, Contracting Parties who start to apply this UN Regulation after the date of entry into force of the most recent series of amendments are not obliged to accept type approvals which were granted in accordance with any of the preceding series of amendments to this UN Regulation / are only obliged to accept type approval granted in accordance with the 04 series of amendments. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      17.7. 
                   
                   
                      As from the official date of entry into force of the 03 series of amendments, no Contracting Party applying this Regulation shall refuse to grant or refuse to accept type approvals under this Regulation as amended by the 03 series of amendments. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      17.8. 
                   
                   
                      As from 1 September 2018, Contracting Parties applying this Regulation shall grant type approvals only if the vehicle type to be approved meets the requirements of this Regulation as amended by the 03 series of amendments. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      17.9. 
                   
                   
                      Contracting Parties applying this Regulation shall not refuse to grant extensions of type approvals for existing types which have been granted according to the preceding series of amendments to this Regulation. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      17.10. 
                   
                   
                      Even after the date of entry into force of the 03 series of amendments to this Regulation, Contracting Parties applying this Regulation shall continue to accept type approvals to the preceding series of amendments to the Regulation which are not affected by the 03 series of amendments. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      17.11. 
                   
                   
                      Notwithstanding the transitional provisions above, Contracting Parties whose application of this Regulation comes into force after the date of entry into force of the most recent series of amendments are not obliged to accept type approvals which were granted in accordance with any of the preceding series of amendments to this Regulation. 