Transitional provisions
ANNEXES
Annex 1 — Retro-reflecting devices, symbols, units
Annex 2 — Communication concerning the approval (or refusal or withdrawal of approval or production
definitely discontinued) of a type of retro-reflecting device pursuant to Regulation No 3
Annex 3 — Arrangements of approval marks
Annex 4 — Test procedure — Class IA and Class IIIA
Annex 5 — Specifications of shape and dimensions
Appendix — Retro-reflectors for trailers — Classes IIIA and IIIB
31.1.2009 L 31/1Official Journal of the European UnionEN
Annex 6 — Colorimetric specifications
Annex 7 — Photometric specifications
Annex 8 — Resistance to external agents
Annex 9 — Stability in time of optical properties of retro-reflecting devices
Annex 10 — Resistance to heat
Annex 11 — Colour-fastness
Annex 12 — Chronological order of tests
Annex 13 — Resistance to impact — Class IVA
Annex 14 — Test procedure — Class IVA
Annex 15 — Chronological order of tests for Class IVA
Annex 16 — Test procedure for Classes IB and IIIB devices
Annex 17 — Minimum requirements for conformity of production control procedures
Annex 18 — Minimum requirements for sampling by an inspector
1. SCOPE
This Regulation applies to retro-reflecting devices ( 1) for vehicles of categories L, M, N, O, and T ( 2).
2. DEFINITIONS ( 3)
For the purpose of this Regulation,
2.1. The definitions given in Regulation No 48 and its series of amendments in force at the time of
application for type approval shall apply to this Regulation.
2.2. ‘Retro-reflection’ means the reflection in which light is reflected in directions close to the direction
from which it came. This property is maintained over wide variations of the illumination angle.
2.3. ‘Retro-reflecting optical unit’ means a combination of optical components producing
retro-reflection.
2.4. ‘Retro-reflecting device’ (1) means an assembly ready for use and comprising one or more
retro-reflecting optical units.
2.5. ‘Angle of divergence’ means the angle between the straight lines connecting the centre of reference
to the centre of the receiver and to the centre of the source of illumination.
2.6. ‘Illumination angle’ means the angle between the axis of reference and the straight line connecting
the centre of reference to the centre of the source of illumination.
2.7. ‘Angle of rotation’ means the angle through which the retro-reflecting device is rotated about its
axis of reference starting from one given position.
2.8. ‘Angular diameter of the retro-reflecting device’ means the angle subtended by the greatest dimen-
sion of the visible area of the illuminating surface, either at the centre of the source of illumination
or at the centre of the receiver.
2.9. ‘Illumination of the retro-reflecting device’ is the abbreviated expression used conventionally to
designate the illumination measured in a plane perpendicular to the incident rays and passing
through the centre of reference.
2.10. ‘Coefficient of luminous intensity (CIL)’ means the quotient of the luminous intensity reflected in
the direction considered, divided by the illumination of the retro-reflecting device for given angles
of illumination, divergence and rotation.
31.1.2009L 31/2 Official Journal of the European UnionEN
(1) Also called ‘retro-reflectors’.
(2) As defined in Annex 7 to the Consolidated Resolution on the Construction of Vehicles (R.E.3) (document TRANS/WP.29/
78/Rev.1/Amend.2 as last amended by Amend. 4).
(3) The definitions of the technical terms (excluding the ones in Regulation No 48) are those adopted by the International
Commission on Illumination (CIE).
2.11. The symbols and units used in this Regulation are given in Annex 1 to this Regulation.
2.12. A type of ‘retro-reflecting device’ is defined by the models and descriptive literature submitted with
the application for approval. Retro-reflecting devices can be considered as belonging to the same
type if they have one or more ‘retro-reflecting optical units’ which are identical with those of the
standard model, or if not identical are symmetrical and suitable for mounting one on the left and
one on the right side of the vehicle, and if their other parts differ from those of the standard model
only in ways not affecting the properties to which this Regulation applies.
2.13. Retro-reflecting devices are divided into three classes according to their photometric characteristics:
Class IA or IB, Class IIIA or IIIB, and Class IVA.
2.14. Retro-reflecting devices of Class IB and IIIB are devices combined with other signal lamps which
are not watertight according to Annex 7, paragraph 1.1, and which are integrated into the body of
a vehicle.
3. APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL
3.1. The application for approval shall be submitted by the holder of the trade name or mark, or if
necessary by his duly accredited representative.
At the choice of the applicant, it will specify that the device may be installed on a vehicle with
different inclinations of the reference axis in respect to the vehicle reference planes and to the
ground or, in the case of Class IA, IB and IVA retro-reflectors, rotate around its reference axis; these
different conditions of installation shall be indicated in the communication form. It shall be accom-
panied by:
3.1.1. drawings, in triplicate, in sufficient detail to permit identification of the type, showing geometrically
the position(s) in which the retro-reflecting device may be fitted to the vehicle, and in case of class
IB or IIIB-retro-reflectors details of installation. The drawings must show the position intended for
the approval number and class indicator in relation to the circle of the approval mark;
3.1.2. a brief description giving the technical specifications of the materials of which the retro-reflecting
optical unit is made;
3.1.3. samples of the retro-reflecting device of a colour specified by the manufacturer and, if necessary,
the means of fixation; the number of samples to be submitted is specified in Annex 4 to this
Regulation;
3.1.4. if necessary, two samples in other colour(s) for simultaneous or subsequent extension of the
approval to devices in other colour(s);
3.1.5. in the case of devices of Class IVA: samples of the retro-reflecting device and, if necessary, the
means of fixation; the number of samples to be submitted is specified in Annex 14 to this
Regulation.
4. MARKINGS
4.1. Every retro-reflecting device submitted for approval must bear:
4.1.1. the trade name or mark of the applicant;
4.1.2. the word ‘TOP’ inscribed horizontally on the highest part of the illuminating surface, if such an
indication is necessary to determine without ambiguity the angle or angles of rotation prescribed
by the manufacturer.
4.2. A space of sufficient size to accommodate the approval mark shall be provided on every device.
This space shall be shown on the drawings referred to in paragraph 3.1.1 above.
31.1.2009 L 31/3Official Journal of the European UnionEN
4.3. The markings must be applied on the illuminating surface, or on one of the illuminating surfaces,
of the retro-reflecting device and must be visible from the outside when the retro-reflecting device
is fitted on the vehicle.
4.4. The markings must be clearly legible and be indelible.
5. APPROVAL
5.1. If all the samples submitted meet the requirements of this Regulation, approval shall be granted.
5.2. If the approval granted in respect of a retro-reflecting device is extended to other such devices
differing only in colour, the two samples in any other colour submitted in conformity with para-
graph 3.1.4 of this Regulation shall be required to meet only the colorimetric specifications
(Annex 6), the other tests no longer being required. Paragraph 5.2 is not applicable to devices of
Class IVA.
5.3. An approval number shall be assigned to each type approved. Its first two digits (at present 02,
corresponding to the 02 series of amendments which entered into force on 1 July 1985) shall indi-
cate the series of amendments incorporating the most recent major technical amendments made to
the Regulation at the time of issue of the approval. The same Contracting Party shall not assign the
same number to another type of retro-reflecting device covered by this Regulation except in the
case of an extension of the approval to a device differing only in colour.
5.4. Notice of approval or of extension or refusal of approval of a type of retro-reflecting device
pursuant to this Regulation shall be communicated to the Parties to the Agreement which apply
this Regulation, by means of a form conforming to the model in Annex 2 to this Regulation.
5.5. There shall be affixed to every retro-reflecting device conforming to a type approved under this
Regulation, in the space referred to in paragraph 4.2 and in addition to the markings prescribed in
paragraph 4.1.
5.5.1. an international approval mark consisting of:
5.5.1.1. a circle surrounding the letter ‘E’ followed by the distinguishing number of the country which has
granted approval (
1);
5.5.1.2. an approval number;
5.5.1.3. a group of symbols IA, IB, IIIA, IIIB or IVA showing the class of the approved retro-reflecting
device.
5.6. When two or more lamps are part of the same unit of grouped, combined or reciprocally incorpo-
rated lamps (including a retro-reflector), approval is granted only if each of these lamps satisfies the
requirements of this Regulation or of another Regulation. Lamps not satisfying any one of those
Regulations shall not be part of such a unit of grouped, combined or reciprocally incorporated
lamps.
31.1.2009L 31/4 Official Journal of the European UnionEN
(1) 1 for Germany, 2 for France, 3 for Italy, 4 for the Netherlands, 5 for Sweden, 6 for Belgium, 7 for Hungary, 8 for the Czech
Republic, 9 for Spain, 10 for Serbia, 11 for the United Kingdom, 12 for Austria, 13 for Luxembourg, 14 for Switzerland,
15 (vacant), 16 for Norway, 17 for Finland, 18 for Denmark, 19 for Romania, 20 for Poland, 21 for Portugal, 22 for the
Russian Federation, 23 for Greece, 24 for Ireland, 25 for Croatia, 26 for Slovenia, 27 for Slovakia, 28 for Belarus, 29 for
Estonia, 30 (vacant), 31 for Bosnia and Herzegovina, 32 for Latvia, 33 (vacant), 34 for Bulgaria, 35 (vacant), 36 for
Lithuania, 37 for Turkey, 38 (vacant), 39 for Azerbaijan, 40 for The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, 41 (vacant),
42 for the European Community (Approvals are granted by its Member States using their respective ECE symbol), 43 for
Japan, 44 (vacant), 45 for Australia, 46 for Ukraine, 47 for South Africa, 48 for New Zealand, 49 for Cyprus, 50 for Malta,
51 for the Republic of Korea, 52 for Malaysia, 53 for Thailand, 54 and 55 (vacant) and 56 for Montenegro. Subsequent
numbers shall be assigned to other countries in the chronological order in which they ratify or accede to the Agreement
Concerning the Adoption of Uniform Technical Prescriptions for Wheeled Vehicles, Equipment and Parts which can be
Fitted and/or be Used on Wheeled Vehicles and the Conditions for Reciprocal Recognition of Approvals Granted on the
Basis of these Prescriptions, and the numbers thus assigned shall be communicated by the Secretary-General of the United
Nations to the contracting parties to the Agreement.
5.6.1. Where grouped, combined or reciprocally incorporated lamps comply with the requirements of
several Regulations, a single international approval mark may be applied, consisting of a circle
surrounding the letter ‘E’ followed by the distinguishing number of the country which has granted
the approval, an approval number and, if necessary, the required arrow. This approval mark may be
placed anywhere on the grouped, combined or reciprocally incorporated lamps provided that:
5.6.1.1. It is visible after their installation;
5.6.1.2. No part of the grouped, combined or reciprocally incorporated lamps that transmits light can be
removed without at the same time removing the approval mark.
5.6.2. The identification symbol for each lamp appropriate to each Regulation under which approval has
been granted, together with the corresponding series of amendments incorporating the most recent
major technical amendments to the Regulation at the time of issue of the approval, shall be
marked;
5.6.2.1. Either on the appropriate light-emitting surface,
5.6.2.2. Or in a group, in such a way that each lamp of the grouped, combined or reciprocally incorporated
lamps may be clearly identified (see the possible examples shown in Annex 3).
5.6.3. The size of the components of a single approval mark shall not be less than the minimum size
required for the smallest of the individual marks by a Regulation under which approval has been
granted.
5.6.4. An approval number shall be assigned to each type approved. The same Contracting Party may not
assign the same number to another type of grouped, combined or reciprocally incorporated lamps
covered by this Regulation.
5.7. The approval mark must be clearly legible and indelible.
5.8. Annex 3 to this Regulation gives examples of arrangements of approval marks for a single lamp
(figure 1) and for grouped, combined or reciprocally incorporated lamps (figure 2) with all the addi-
tional symbols referred to above.
6. GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS
6.1. Retro-reflecting devices must be so constructed that they function satisfactorily and will continue
to do so in normal use. In addition, they must not have any defect in design or manufacture that is
detrimental to their efficient operation or to their maintenance in good condition.
6.2. The components of retro-reflecting devices must not be capable of being easily dismantled.
6.3. Retro-reflecting optical units may not be replaceable.
6.4. The outer surface of retro-reflecting devices must be easy to clean. Hence it must not be a rough
surface; any protuberances it may exhibit must not prevent easy cleaning.
6.5. For devices of Class IVA their means of fixation shall be such that they allow a stable and durable
connection between the device and the vehicle.
6.6. There shall be no access to the inner surface of the retro-reflectors when in normal use.
31.1.2009 L 31/5Official Journal of the European UnionEN
7. SPECIAL SPECIFICATIONS (TESTS)
7.1. Retro-reflecting devices must also satisfy the conditions as to dimensions and shape, and the colori-
metric, photometric, physical and mechanical requirements set forth in Annexes 5 to 11 and 13 to
this Regulation. The test procedures are described in Annex 4 (Class IA, IIIA), Annex 14 (Class IVA)
and Annex 16 (Class IB, IIIB).
7.2. Depending on the nature of the materials of which the retro-reflecting devices and, in particular,
their optical units, are made, the competent authorities may authorise laboratories to omit certain
unnecessary tests, subject to the express reservation that such omission must be mentioned under
‘Remarks’ on the form notifying approval.
8. CONFORMITY OF PRODUCTION
The conformity of production procedures shall comply with those set out in the Agreement,
Appendix 2 (E/ECE/324-E/ECE/TRANS/505/Rev.2), with the following requirements:
8.1. Retro-reflectors approved under this Regulation shall be so manufactured as to conform to the type
approved by meeting the requirements set forth in paragraphs 6 and 7.
8.2. The minimum requirements for conformity of production control procedures set forth in Annex 17
to this Regulation shall be complied with.
8.3. The minimum requirements for sampling by an inspector set forth in Annex 18 to this Regulation
shall be complied with.
8.4. The authority which has granted type approval may at any time verify the conformity control
methods applied in each production facility. The normal frequency of these verifications shall be
once every two years.
9. PENALTIES FOR NON-CONFORMITY OF PRODUCTION
9.1. The approval granted for a type of retro-reflecting device may be withdrawn if the requirements are
not complied with or if a retro-reflecting device bearing the approval mark does not conform to
the type approved.
9.2. If a Contracting Party to the Agreement applying this Regulation withdraws an approval it has
previously granted, it shall forthwith so notify the other Contracting Parties applying this Regu-
lation by means of a communication form conforming to the model in Annex 2 to this Regulation.
10. PRODUCTION DEFINITELY DISCONTINUED
If the holder of the approval completely ceases to manufacture a type of retro-reflecting device
approved in accordance with this Regulation, he shall so inform the authority which granted the
approval. Upon receiving the relevant communication, that authority shall inform thereof the other
Parties to the 1958 Agreement applying this Regulation by means of a communication form
conforming to the model in Annex 2 to this Regulation.