TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS 
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      12.1. 
                   
                   
                      As from the date of entry into force of Supplement 8 to this Regulation in its original form, no Contracting Party applying this Regulation shall refuse an application for approval under this Regulation as amended by Supplement 8 to the Regulation in its original form. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      12.2. 
                   
                   
                      As from 24 months after the official date of the entry into force of Supplement 8, the Contracting Parties applying this Regulation may refuse to recognize the approval of safety glazing not bearing the symbols prescribed in paragraph 5.5 of this Regulation. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      12.3. 
                   
                   
                      As from the official date of entry into force of Supplement 12 to this Regulation, no Contracting Party applying this Regulation shall refuse to grant approval under this Regulation as amended by Supplement 12 to the Regulation in its original form. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      12.4. 
                   
                   
                      As from 24 months after the date of entry into force, Contracting Parties applying this Regulation shall grant approvals only if the type of component or separate unit to be approved meets the requirements of Supplement 12 to the Regulation. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      12.5. 
                   
                   
                      As from 24 months after the date of entry into force of Supplement 12, the Contracting Parties applying this Regulation may refuse to recognize the approval of safety glazing not bearing the symbols prescribed in paragraph 5.5 of this Regulation. 
                   
                
             
          
          13.   PRODUCTION DEFINITELY DISCONTINUED 
          If the holder of the approval completely ceases to manufacture a type of safety glazing material approved in accordance with this Regulation, he shall so inform the authority which granted the approval. Upon receiving the relevant communication, that authority shall inform thereof the other Parties to the Agreement which apply this Regulation by means of a copy of a communication form conforming to the model in annex 1 to this Regulation. 