Transitional provisions  
ANNEXES 
1. Communication concerning the approval or refusal or extension or withdrawal of approval or production definitely 
discontinued of a type of headlamp cleaner pursuant to Regulation No 45  
2. Communication concerning the approval or refusal or extension or withdrawal of approval or production definitely 
discontinued of a vehicle type with regard to headlamp cleaners, pursuant to Regulation No 45  
3. Arrangements of the approval marks  
4. Procedure for testing the performance of headlamp cleaners
EN 29.4.2020 Official Journal of the European Union L 136/1
 
1. SCOPE  
This Regulation applies to the approval of headlamp cleaners and to the approval of a type of vehicle with 
regard to headlamp cleaners.  
In this case it is possible, at the manufacturer’s choice, to install a headlamp cleaner previously approved as a 
component, but this previous approval is not mandatory (  1 ). 
2. DEFINITIONS  
For the purposes of this Regulation:  
2.1. ‘Headlamp cleaner’ means a complete device with which all or part of the light emitting surface of a headlamp 
or an AFS system can be cleaned;  
2.2. ‘Type of headlamp cleaner’ means headlamp cleaners which do not differ in such essential respects as (  2 ): 
2.2.1. The trade name or mark:  
(a) Headlamp cleaners bearing the same trade name or mark but produced by different manufacturers shall be 
considered as being of different types;  
(b) Headlamp cleaners produced by the same manufacturer differing only by the trade name or mark shall be 
considered as being of the same type.  
2.2.2. The cleaning principle employed;  
2.2.3. Different geometric dimensions of the headlamp, if this implies any modification of the components of the 
cleaner; 
2.3. ‘Vehicle type’ means vehicles which do not differ in such essential respects as:  
2.3.1. The type of headlamp cleaner;  
2.3.2. The geometric arrangements of the headlamp cleaning equipment, if this implies any modification of its 
operation; 
2.3.3. Capacity class of the fluid container;  
2.4. ‘Approval of a vehicle’ means approval of a vehicle type with regard to headlamp cleaners;  
2.5. ‘Fluid container’ means that part of the headlamp cleaner in which – in the appropriate cases – the cleaning fluid 
is stored;  
2.6. ‘Cleaning efficiency’ means the percentage of the intensity of illumination measured at a measuring point after 
cleaning with respect to the values measured with the sample totally clean;  
2.7. ‘Cleaning period’ means the period of time comprising one or more cleaning operations to fulfil the 
requirements specified in paragraph 7 below to be met.  
2.8. ‘Cleaning operation’ means any suitable process for cleaning;  
2.9. The definitions given in Regulation No 48 and its series of amendments in force at the time of application for 
type approval shall apply to this Regulation.
EN L 136/2 Official Journal of the European Union 29.4.2020  
( 1 ) Adherence to this Regulation is not incompatible with the existence of national regulations which do not accept vehicles appr oved 
with headlamp cleaners of capacity class 25.  
( 2 ) Headlamp cleaners shall not be considered as different in type because of differences in fluid consumption, cleaning period o r the 
fitting of cleaning elements, provided that compliance with this Regulation is verified by the technical service responsible fo r the 
approval tests. This is also valid, if headlamps to be cleaned differ only by the filament lamp used, the design for left hand or right 
hand traffic, the colour of the light or by parts of the headlamp which do not influence the effectiveness of the headlamp clea ner. In 
the case of different filament lamps only the headlamp version with the highest power consumption is to be tested.
 
3. APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL  
3.1. The application for approval of a type of headlamp cleaner shall be submitted by the holder of the trade name 
or mark or by his duly accredited representative.  
3.2. The application for approval of a vehicle type with regard to the headlamp cleaners shall be submitted by the 
vehicle manufacturer or by his duly accredited representative.  
3.3. The application shall specify either the type number or the approval number of the headlamp(s) or the shapes 
and dimensions of the headlamp(s) for which the cleaner is intended and shall be accompanied by the under ­
mentioned documents or samples, in triplicate giving the following particulars:  
3.3.1. Drawings showing in sufficient detail the installation to a vehicle, the relative attachment between the head ­
lamp(s) and the wiper(s), nozzle(s), or corresponding parts, the position of the approval mark and the cleaning 
principle employed; where appropriate, the part of the illuminating surface of the headlamp relevant to the 
cleaner shall also be shown;  
3.3.2. Either a specification of the type(s) or the approval number(s) of the headlamp(s) for which the cleaner is 
intended if only a part of the lens is cleaned or a specification of the main measures (diameter and radius of 
curvature of the lens) if the lens is cleaned uniformly;  
3.3.3. A list, specifying the parts which constitute the headlamp cleaner and drawings thereof, (e.g. pumps, nozzles, 
valves, motors and wipers);  
3.3.4. A brief technical description indicating the length of the cleaning period, the consumption of cleaning fluid 
during the cleaning period and the minimum capacity of the container provided;  
3.3.5. For each type of headlamp, one sample intended for the installation on the left side of the vehicle and one 
sample intended for the installation of the right side of the vehicle, complete with relevant headlamp(s) installed 
as described in paragraph 3.3.1 above, either on (a) suitable test fixture(s) or on (a) vehicle(s) representative of 
the type(s) to be approved, in such a manner as to allow normal operation of the cleaner and the headlamp(s). 
In the case of headlamps for right hand traffic and left hand traffic, it is sufficient to test only one set of 
headlamps for either right hand traffic or for left hand traffic;  
3.3.6. A separate complete headlamp cleaning device;  
3.3.7. Instructions for the installation in case of approval of a headlamp cleaner;  
3.3.8. If required by the technical service responsible for conducting approval tests, technical documentation and 
further samples.  
3.3.9. In the case of a type of headlamp cleaner differing only by the trade name or mark from a type that has already 
been approved it shall be sufficient to submit:  
3.3.9.1. A declaration by the headlamp cleaner manufacturer that the type submitted is identical (except in the trade 
name or mark) with and has been produced by the same manufacturer as, the type already approved, the latter 
being identified by its approval code;  
3.3.9.2. Two samples bearing the new trade name or mark or equivalent documentation.  
4. MARKINGS  
4.1. The headlamp cleaner shall on at least one main part bear the following marks clearly legible and indelible:  
4.1.1. The trade name or mark;  
4.1.2. In the case of electrically operated parts, the nominal voltage;
EN 29.4.2020 Official Journal of the European Union L 136/3
 
4.2. One main part of the cleaner submitted for approval shall bear a space of sufficient size for the approval mark; 
this space shall be shown in the drawing referred to in paragraph 3.3.1.  
4.3. The vehicle submitted for approval shall bear a space of sufficient size for the approval mark, in accordance 
with annex 3 to this Regulation.  
5. APPROVAL  
5.1. The approval of a headlamp cleaner shall extend only to the operating principle employed for the cleaning of 
either the types or the shapes and functions of headlamps indicated in the application for approval;  
5.2. If the type of headlamp cleaner or vehicle type submitted for approval pursuant to this Regulation meets the 
requirements of paragraphs 6 and 7 below, approval of that type of headlamp cleaner or vehicle shall be 
granted. 
5.3. An approval number shall be assigned to each type approved. Its first two digits (at present 01 corresponding to 
the 01 series of amendments which entered into force on 9 February 1988) shall indicate the series of 
amendments incorporating the most recent major technical amendments made to the Regulation at the time 
of issue of the approval. The same Contracting Party may not assign the same number to another type of 
vehicle or headlamp cleaner.  
5.4. Notice of approval, of extension or of refusal of approval of a vehicle type pursuant to this Regulation shall be 
communicated to the Parties to the Agreement applying this Regulation by means of a form conforming to the 
model in annex 1 to this Regulation and of drawings supplied by the applicant for approval, in a format not 
exceeding A4 (210 × 297 mm), or folded to that format, and on an appropriate scale.  
Notice of approval, of extension or of refusal of approval of a type of headlamp cleaner shall be communicated 
to the Parties to the Agreement which apply this Regulation by means of a form conforming to the model in 
annex 2 to this Regulation and of drawings supplied by the applicant for approval, in a format not exceeding 
A4 (210 × 297 mm), or folded to that format, and on an appropriate scale.  
5.5. There shall be affixed, conspicuously and in a readily accessible place specified on the approval form, to every 
vehicle or headlamp cleaner conforming to a type approved under this Regulation, an international approval 
mark consisting of:  
5.5.1. A circle surrounding the letter ‘E’ followed by the distinguishing number of the country granting approval (  3 ); 
5.5.2. For a vehicle type, the number of this Regulation, followed by the letter R, a dash and the approval number to 
the right of the circle prescribed in paragraph 5.5.1;  
5.5.3. For a vehicle type, the following additional symbol: a rectangle surrounding a figure expressing the capacity 
class of the fluid container; the class can be either 50 or 25 as stipulated in paragraph 6.5.2.1;  
5.5.4. For a type of headlamp cleaner, an approval number.  
5.6. If the vehicle conforms to a vehicle type approved, under one or more other Regulations annexed to the 
Agreement, in the country which has granted approval under this Regulation, the symbol prescribed in 
paragraph 5.5.1, need not be repeated; in such a case the regulation and approval numbers and the additional 
symbols of all the Regulations under which approval has been granted in the country which has granted 
approval under this Regulation shall be placed in vertical columns to the right of the symbol prescribed in 
paragraph 5.5.1.  
5.7. The approval mark shall be clearly legible and be indelible.
EN L 136/4 Official Journal of the European Union 29.4.2020  
( 3 ) The distinguishing numbers of the Contracting Parties to the 1958 Agreement are reproduced in Annex 3 to the Consolidated 
Resolution on the Construction of Vehicles (R.E.3), document ECE/TRANS/WP.29/78/Rev. 6 – www.unece.org/trans/main/wp29/ 
wp29wgs/wp29gen/wp29resolutions.html.
 
5.8. For a vehicle type, the approval mark shall be placed either near the headlamps or close to or on the plate 
affixed by the manufacturer showing the characteristics of the vehicle.  
5.9. Annex 3 to this Regulation gives examples of arrangements of approval marks.  
6. GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS  
6.1. The headlamp cleaner shall be designed and constructed to clean those parts of the light-emitting surface of the 
headlamps which produce the principal passing beam and, as an option, the driving beam, so that at least the 
cleaning effect specified in paragraph 7 below is achieved.  
6.1.1. In case the passing beam is provided by an adaptive front-lighting system (AFS): the headlamp cleaner shall be 
designed and constructed to clean those parts of the light-emitting surface of the AFS which need, according to 
the provisions of paragraph 6.22.9.1 of Regulation No 48, to be installed with a cleaning device.  
6.2. The headlamp cleaner shall be furthermore so designed that:  
6.2.1. When parts of the headlamp cleaner in the rest position(s) are on the headlamps’ illuminating surface, the 
photometric values of the headlamps, and of the lamps which are grouped or reciprocally incorporated with the 
headlamp as submitted for test, measured at the points listed in the appropriate Regulation for which minimum 
values are specified, shall not be reduced by more than 5 per cent in any normal rest position(s) of those parts, 
with respect to those measured before installation of the cleaning device; in no case shall these values be less 
than the values prescribed in the Regulation in question;  
6.2.1.1. Paragraph 6.2.1 is not applicable when the headlamp and the parts of the headlamp cleaner referred to in 
paragraph 6.2.1 form a complete assembly during the approval of the headlamp;  
6.2.2. During operation, except in the rest position, the mechanical parts shall not cover more than:  
6.2.2.1. 20 per cent of the illuminating surface of a headlamp producing a passing beam;  
6.2.2.2. 10 per cent of the illuminating surface of a headlamp producing a driving beam not reciprocally incorporated 
with a headlamp producing a passing beam;  
6.2.3. It is able to operate at all temperatures between – 10 °C and + 35 °C and to operate satisfactorily at speeds 
between O and 130 km/h (or the maximum speed of the vehicle if it is below 130 km/h); this shall not apply, 
however, if the cleaner is blocked by snow or ice; the cleaner shall remain undamaged if exposed to a 
temperature of – 35 °C and of + 80 °C respectively for a period of one hour;  
6.2.4. In normal use, in spite of the vibration to which it may be subjected, its satisfactory operation continues to be 
ensured; 
6.2.5. It will not be functionally damaged due to water, ice or snow accumulating on it during normal operation of 
the vehicle, even if the cleaning liquid is frozen; a temporary failure due to freezing or deposit of snow shall not 
be considered as damage, provided that the device can be made to work again by simple means;  
6.2.6. All elements which may come into contact with the cleaning fluid must be resistant against a mixture consisting 
of 50 per cent methyl alcohol, ethyl alcohol or isopropyl alcohol and 50 per cent water;  
6.2.7. Its parts do not hinder the adjustment of the headlamps or the inserting or changing of filament lamps; if 
necessary, the cleaner or parts of it may be detachable, if they can be removed with simple tools.  
6.3. Parts of the headlamp cleaner which, in the rest position(s) and/or during operation, form part of the external 
surface of the vehicle, shall meet the following requirements:
EN 29.4.2020 Official Journal of the European Union L 136/5
 
6.3.1. The parts shall not exhibit, directed outwards, any pointed or sharp parts or any projections of such shape, 
dimensions, direction or hardness as to be likely to increase the risk or severity of bodily injury to a person hit 
or brushed by the bodywork;  
6.3.2. No protruding part on the external surface shall have a radius of curvature of less than 2,5 mm; this 
requirement shall not apply to parts of a hardness not exceeding 60 shore A;  
6.3.3. In cases where the cleaner comprises a wiper, paragraph 6.3.2 above shall not apply to the wiper blades or to 
any supporting members. However, these units shall be so made as to have no sharp angles or pointed or 
cutting parts of a non-functional nature. Any wiper shaft shall be furnished with a protective casing having a 
radius of curvature of not less than 2,5 mm and a surface of not less than 50 mm  2 ; 
6.3.4. In cases where the cleaner comprises a nozzle(s), paragraph 6.3.2 shall apply neither to the functional parts of 
the nozzle(s) nor to the non-functional parts if they protrude less than 5 mm;  
6.3.5. The provisions of paragraphs 6.3.1, 6.3.2 and 6.3.3 above shall not apply to those parts of the headlamp 
cleaner which are located so that, in static conditions, they cannot be contacted by a sphere 100 mm in 
diameter. 
6.4. The conformity with specifications of paragraphs 6.2.3, 6.2.4, 6.2.5 and 6.2.6 shall be certified by the applicant. 
In the case of doubt, the technical service responsible for conducting the approval tests can verify that these 
requirements have been met.  
6.5. In case of approval of a vehicle the following requirements shall also be met:  
6.5.1. Cleaning of all headlamps producing the principal passing beam shall be compulsory. If there are more than 
two headlamps producing the driving beam, the cleaning of one pair of these headlamps shall be sufficient;  
6.5.2. If the cleaner has a fluid container this may be combined with the fluid container for the windscreen washers 
and the rear window washer and shall satisfy the following requirements:  
6.5.2.1. The capacity of the fluid container shall be sufficient for at least 50 cleaning periods for headlamp cleaners of 
capacity class 50 and at least 25 cleaning periods for headlamp cleaners of capacity class 25. If the container 
not only feeds the headlamp cleaner but also the windscreen washer and/or the rear window washer, this 
capacity shall be increased by one litre in all,  
6.5.2.2. It shall be easy to check the level of the fluid, and the opening for filling shall be readily accessible;  
6.5.3. Neither the cleaner nor any part of it shall prevent the adjustment of the headlamp and the replacement of the 
filament lamp. In case of need, the cleaner or part of it shall be removable with simple tools. No other 
prescribed or permissible lighting or light-signalling devices shall be impaired in their effectiveness either by 
parts or by the operation of the headlamp cleaner, except during the cleaning period; it must above all not 
systematically deposit any dirt when in normal service, on the light-emitting surfaces of other lighting or light- 
signalling devices;  
6.5.4. The control of the cleaning device shall be operable from the driver’s seat and may be coupled with the controls 
for other cleaning devices.  
In addition, when the cleaning device is required to be fitted according to Regulation No 48, and in the absence 
of any automatic activation of the cleaning device, it must operate through at least one cleaning period when, 
the headlamps being already switched on, the windscreen washers are operated.  
6.6. In the case where on a vehicle submitted for approval a headlamp cleaner previously approved as a component 
is fitted, only the requirements set forth in paragraphs 6.5 to 6.5.4 shall be verified.
EN L 136/6 Official Journal of the European Union 29.4.2020
 
7. CLEANING EFFICIENCY VERIFICATION  
7.1. The efficiency of the cleaner shall be tested in accordance with the requirements of Annex 4 to this Regulation. 
The cleaning efficiency at the points on the measuring screen which are specified below shall, after every 
cleaning period, amount to at least 70 per cent for the principal passing beam lamp and also 70 per cent for 
the optional driving lamp; in case of an AFS this provision applies to the photometric test procedures as defined 
in Annex 9 to Regulation No 123 from those lighting units in the neutral state indicated in paragraph 6.1.1 
above. In the case of a headlamp (Regulation No 98 or 112) providing bend lighting, the headlamp shall be set 
for the test in a straight forward direction.  
Diagram of Measuring Points on a Screen
  
7.2. The measuring point shall be located as shown in the above sketch, on a screen situated 25 m from the 
headlamp and perpendicular to its axis.  
7.3. Measuring points for the headlamp producing the passing beam  
7.3.1. Headlamps approved in respect of the passing beam only (marking C or HC or XC/V/E/W/T in the approval 
mark); 
Measuring points: 50 R (L) and 50 V (  4 ). 
7.3.2. Headlamps approved in respect of the passing beam and the driving beam (marking CR, HCR, C+R, C+HR, 
HC+R or HC+HR or XC/V/E/W/R/T).  
Measuring points; 50R (L) (and 50V if in the same headlamps, different optical systems for the driving beam 
and the passing beam are provided.  
7.4. Measuring point for the headlamp producing the driving beam  
Measuring point: HV.  
8. MODIFICATIONS OF TYPE AND EXTENSION OF APPROVAL  
8.1. Every modification of a type of headlamp cleaner or a vehicle type shall be notified to the Type Approval 
Authority which issued the approval. The Type Approval Authority may then either:  
8.1.1. Consider that the modifications introduced are unlikely to have an appreciable adverse effect and that in any 
case the headlamp cleaner or the vehicle still complies with the requirements; or
EN 29.4.2020 Official Journal of the European Union L 136/7  
( 4 ) R refers to right-hand driving. 
L refers to left-hand driving.
 
8.1.2. Require a further test report from the technical service responsible for conducting the tests.  
8.2. Confirmation or refusal of approval, specifying the alterations, shall be communicated by the procedure 
specified in paragraph 5.4 above to the Parties to the Agreement applying this Regulation.  
8.3. The competent Authority issuing the extension of approval shall assign a series number to each communication 
form drawn up for such an extension.  
9. CONFORMITY OF PRODUCTION  
9.1. Every vehicle or headlamp cleaner bearing an approval mark as prescribed under this Regulation shall conform 
to the type approved and satisfy the requirements of paragraphs 6 and 7 above.  
9.2. In order to verify conformity as prescribed in paragraph 9.1 above, a vehicle or headlamp cleaner bearing the 
approval mark pursuant to this Regulation shall be taken from the production.  
10. PENALTIES FOR NON-CONFORMITY OF PRODUCTION  
10.1. The approval granted in respect of a type of headlamp cleaner or a vehicle type pursuant to this Regulation may 
be withdrawn if the requirements laid down in paragraph 9.1 above are not complied with or if the sample 
taken fails to pass the tests prescribed in paragraph 9.2 above.  
10.2. If a Party to the Agreement applying this Regulation withdraws an approval it has previously granted, it shall 
forthwith so notify the other Contracting Parties applying this Regulation, by means of a form conforming to 
the model in annexes 1 or 2 to this Regulation.  
11. PRODUCTION DEFINITELY DISCONTINUED  
If the holder of the approval completely ceases to manufacture a type of headlamp cleaner or vehicle approved 
in accordance with this Regulation, he shall so inform the Authority which granted the approval. Upon 
receiving the relevant communication, that Authority shall inform thereof the other Parties to the Agreement 
applying this Regulation, by means of a form conforming to the model in annexes 1 or 2 to this Regulation.  