Transitional provisions
ANNEXES
1 Communication
2 Arrangements of approval marks
3 Examples of lamp surfaces, axes, centres of reference, and angles of geometric visibility
4 Visibility of a red lamp to the front and visibility of a white lamp to the rear
5 States of loading to be taken into consideration in determining variations in the vertical orientation of the dipped beam 
headlamps
EN Official Journal of the European Union 30.9.2021                                                                                                                                           L 347/1  
6 Measurement of the variation of dipped beam inclination as a function of load
7 Indication of the downward inclination of the dipped-beam headlamps cut-off referred to in paragraph 6.2.6.1.1. and 
downward inclination of the front fog lamp cut-off referred to in paragraph 6.3.6.1.2. of this Regulation
8 The controls for the headlamp levelling devices referred to in paragraph 6.2.6.2.2. of this Regulation
9 Control of conformity of production
10 Reserved
11 Visibility of conspicuity markings to the rear, front and side of a vehicle
12 Test drive
13 Automatic switching conditions dipped-beam headlamps
14 Observing area towards the apparent surface of manoeuvring and courtesy lamps
15 Gonio(photo)meter system used for the photometric measurements as defined in paragraph 2.34. of this Regulation
EN Official Journal of the European Union L 347/2                                                                                                                                           30.9.2021  
1. SCOPE
This Regulation applies to vehicles of categories M, N, and to their trailers (category O) (1) with regard to the 
installation of lighting and light-signalling devices.
2. DEFINITIONS
2.1. General
2.1.1. The definitions given in this Regulation and its series of amendments in force at the time of application for 
type approval shall apply to the Light-Signalling Devices (LSD), Road Illumination Devices (RID) and Retro- 
Reflective Devices (RRD) Regulations.
2.1.2. References to standard (étalon) light source(s) shall refer to Regulations Nos. 37, 99 and 128 respectively, 
and to their series of amendments in force at the time of application for type approval.
2.1.3. "Approval of a vehicle" means the approval of a vehicle type with regard to the number and mode of 
installation of the lighting and light-signalling devices.
2.1.4. "Device" means an element or an assembly of elements used to perform one or more functions.
2.1.4.1. "Lighting function" means the light emitted by a device to illuminate the road and objects in the direction of 
vehicle movement.
2.1.4.2. "Light-signalling function" means the light emitted or reflected by a device to give to other road users visual 
information on the presence, identification and/or the change of movement of the vehicle.
2.1.5. "Lamp" means a device designed to illuminate the road or to emit a light signal to other road users. Rear 
registration plate lamps and retro-reflectors are likewise to be regarded as lamps. For the purpose of this 
Regulation, light-emitting rear registration plates, the service-door-lighting system according to the 
provisions of UN Regulation No. 107 on vehicles of categories M
2 and M3 and external status indicator as 
defined in this Regulation are not considered as lamps.
2.1.6. "Change index" means a sequential number, starting from 0, specific to each lamp (function) covered by UN 
Regulations No. 148, No. 149 and No. 150. It indicates the number of times that the new series of 
amendments to the pertinent UN Regulation (No. 148, No. 149 and No. 150) have introduced higher 
stringency requirements for this lamp (function)."
2.2. Type definitions
2.2.1. "Vehicle type with regard to the installation of lighting and light-signalling devices" means vehicles which do not 
differ in the essential respects mentioned in paragraphs 2.2.1.1. to 2.2.1.4.
The following are likewise considered not to be "vehicles of a different type": vehicles which differ within the 
meaning of paragraphs 2.2.1.1. to 2.2.1.4., but not in such a way as to entail a change in the kind, number, 
positioning and geometric visibility of the lamps and the inclination of the dipped-beam prescribed for the 
vehicle type in question, and vehicles on which optional lamps are fitted or are absent:
2.2.1.1. The dimension and the external shape of the vehicle;
2.2.1.2. The number and positioning of the devices;
2.2.1.3. The headlamp-levelling system;
(1) As defined in the Consolidated Resolution on the Construction of Vehicles (R.E.3.), document ECE/TRANS/WP.29/78/Rev.6, para. 2 - 
www.unece.org/trans/main/wp29/wp29wgs/wp29gen/wp29resolutions.html
EN Official Journal of the European Union 30.9.2021                                                                                                                                           L 347/3  
2.2.1.4. The suspension system.
2.3. Vehicle
2.3.1. "Unladen vehicle" means a vehicle without driver, crew, passengers and load, but with a full supply of fuel, 
spare wheel and the tools normally carried.
2.3.2. "Laden vehicle" means a vehicle loaded to its technically permissible maximum mass, as stated by the 
manufacturer, who shall also fix the distribution of this mass between the axles in accordance with the 
method described in Annex 5.
2.3.3. "Extreme outer edge" on either side of the vehicle, means the plane parallel to the median longitudinal plane of 
the vehicle and touching its lateral outer edge, disregarding the projection:
2.3.3.1. Of tyres near their point of contact with the ground, and of connections for tyre-pressure gauges;
2.3.3.2. Of any anti-skid devices mounted on the wheels;
2.3.3.3. Of devices for indirect vision;
2.3.3.4. Of side direction-indicator lamps, end-outline marker lamps, front and rear position lamps, parking lamps, 
retro-reflectors and side-marker lamps.
2.3.3.5. Of customs seals affixed to the vehicle, and of devices for securing and protecting such seals.
2.3.3.6. Of service-door lighting systems on vehicles of categories M
2 and M3 as specified in paragraph 2.1.5.
2.3.4. "Overall dimensions" means the distance between the two vertical planes defined in paragraph 2.3.3. above.
2.3.4.1. "Overall width" means the distance between the two vertical planes defined in paragraph 2.3.3. above.
2.3.4.2. "Overall length" means the distance between the two vertical planes perpendicular to the median 
longitudinal plane of the vehicle and touching its front and rear outer edge, disregarding the projection:
(a) Of devices for indirect vision;
(b) Of end-outline marker lamps;
(c) Of coupling devices, in the case of motor vehicles.
For trailers in the "overall length" and in any measurement in length the drawbar shall be included, except 
when specifically excluded.
2.3.5. "Operating tell-tale" means a visual or auditory signal (or any equivalent signal) indicating that a device has 
been switched ON and is operating correctly or not.
2.3.6. "Closed-circuit tell-tale" means a visual (or any equivalent signal) indicating that a device has been switched 
ON, but not indicating whether it is operating correctly or not.
2.3.7. "Ground" means the surface on which the vehicle stands which should be substantially horizontal.
2.3.8. "Movable components" of the vehicle mean those body panels or other vehicle parts the position(s) of which 
can be changed by tilting, rotating or sliding without the use of tools. They do not include tiltable driver 
cabs of trucks.
EN Official Journal of the European Union L 347/4                                                                                                                                           30.9.2021  
2.3.9. "Normal position of use of a movable component" means the position(s) of a movable component specified by 
the vehicle manufacturer for the normal condition of use and the park condition of the vehicle.
2.3.10. "Normal condition of use of a vehicle" means:
2.3.10.1. For a motor vehicle, when the vehicle is ready to move with its propulsion system running and its movable 
components are in the normal position(s) as defined in paragraph 2.3.9.;
2.3.10.2. And for a trailer, when the trailer is connected to a drawing motor vehicle in the conditions as prescribed in 
paragraph 2.3.10.1. and its movable components are in the normal position(s) as defined in paragraph 
2.3.9.
2.3.11. "Park condition of a vehicle" means:
2.3.11.1. For a motor vehicle, when the vehicle is at standstill and its propulsion system is not running and its 
movable components are in the normal position(s) as defined in paragraph 2.3.9.;
2.3.11.2. And for a trailer, when the trailer is connected to a drawing motor vehicle in the condition as described in 
paragraph 2.3.11.1. and its movable components are in the normal position(s) as defined in paragraph 
2.3.9.
2.4. Lamps generalities
2.4.1. "Equivalent lamps" means lamps having the same function and authorized in the country in which the vehicle 
is registered; such lamps may have different characteristics from those installed on the vehicle when it is 
approved on condition that they satisfy the requirements of this Regulation.
2.4.2. "Independent lamps" means devices having separate apparent surfaces in the direction of the reference axis, (2)
separate light sources and separate lamp bodies.
2.4.3. "Grouped lamps" means devices having separate apparent surfaces in the direction of the reference axis 2 and 
separate light sources, but a common lamp body.
2.4.4. "Combined lamps" means devices having separate apparent surfaces in the direction of the reference axis 2, but 
a common light source and a common lamp body.
2.4.5. "Reciprocally incorporated lamps" means devices having separate light sources or a single light source operating 
under different conditions (for example, optical, mechanical, electrical differences), totally or partially 
common apparent surfaces in the direction of the reference axis 2 and a common lamp body. (3)
2.4.6. "Single-function lamp" means a part of a device which performs a single lighting or light-signalling function.
2.4.7. "Concealable lamp" means a lamp capable of being partly or completely hidden when not in use. This result 
may be achieved by means of a movable cover, by displacement of the lamp or by any other suitable means. 
The term "retractable" is used more particularly to describe a concealable lamp the displacement of which 
enables it to be inserted within the bodywork.
(2) In the case of lighting devices for the rear registration plate and direction-indicators of categories 5 and 6, the "light-emitting surface" 
shall be used.
(3) Examples to enable a decision regarding reciprocal incorporation of lamps can be found in Annex 3, Part 7.
EN Official Journal of the European Union 30.9.2021                                                                                                                                           L 347/5  
2.4.8. "Distance between two lamps" which face in the same direction means the shortest distance between the two 
apparent surfaces in the direction of the reference axis. Where the distance between the lamps clearly meets 
the requirements of the Regulation, the exact edges of apparent surfaces need not be determined.
2.4.9. "Optional lamp" means a lamp, the installation of which is left to the discretion of the manufacturer.
2.4.10. "Pair" means the set of lamps of the same function on the left- and right-hand side of the vehicle.
2.4.10.1. "Matched pair" means the set of lamps of the same function on the left- and right-hand side of the vehicle, 
which, as a pair, complies with the photometric requirements.
2.4.11. "Single and multiple lamps"
2.4.11.1. "A single lamp" means:
(a) A device or part of a device having one lighting or light-signalling function, one or more light source(s) 
and one apparent surface in the direction of the reference axis, which may be a continuous surface or 
composed of two or more distinct parts; or
(b) Any assembly of two lamps marked "D", whether identical or not, having the same function; or
(c) Any assembly of two independent retro-reflectors, whether identical or not, that have been approved 
separately; or
(d) Any interdependent lamp system composed of two or three interdependent lamps marked "Y" approved 
together and providing the same function.
2.4.11.2. "Two lamps" or "an even number of lamps" in the shape of a band or strip, means two lamps with a single light 
emitting surface, providing such a band or strip is placed symmetrically in relation to the median 
longitudinal plane of the vehicle.
2.4.12. "Interdependent lamp system" means an assembly of two or three interdependent lamps providing the same 
function.
2.4.12.1. "Interdependent lamp marked "Y"" means a device operating as part of an interdependent lamp system. 
Interdependent lamps operate together when activated, have separate apparent surfaces in the direction of 
the reference axis and separate lamp bodies, and may have separate light source(s).
2.4.13. "Lamps marked "D"" means independent lamps, approved as separate devices in such a way that they are 
allowed to be used either independently or in an assembly of two lamps to be considered as a "single lamp".
2.4.14. Headlamps of different "Classes" mean headlamps identified by particular photometric provisions.
2.4.15. Definitions with regard to Headlamps emitting a driving-beam and/or a symmetrical passing-beam for 
vehicles of categories L and T:
2.4.15.1. "Additional lighting unit" means the part of a headlamp system that provides the bend lighting. It is 
independent from the device that provides the principal passing beam, may consist of optical, mechanical 
and electrical components, and it may be grouped and/or reciprocally incorporated with other lighting or 
light-signalling devices.
EN Official Journal of the European Union L 347/6                                                                                                                                           30.9.2021  
2.4.16. Definitions with regard to retro-reflectors:
2.4.16.1. "Retro-reflection" means the reflection in which radiation is returned in directions close to the direction from 
which it came, this property being maintained even over wide variations of the direction of the incident 
radiation:
2.4.16.2. "Retro-reflective device" means an assembly ready for use and comprising one or more retro-reflective optical 
units; Retro-reflective devices are divided into classes according to their photometric characteristics: Class 
IA or IB, Class IIIA or IIIB, and Class IVA. Retro-reflective devices of Classes IB and IIIB are devices 
combined with other signal lamps which are not watertight and which are integrated into the body of a 
vehicle.
2.4.17. Definition with regard to Retro-reflective marking:
2.4.17.1. "Retro-reflective marking material" means a surface or a device from which, when directionally illuminated, a 
relatively large portion of the incident radiation is retro-reflected.
2.4.17.2. "Rear marking plate" means a plate faced with retro-reflective and fluorescent material or devices intended to 
increase the visibility and permit easy identification of heavy and long vehicles.
2.4.17.3. "Slow moving vehicle (SMV) rear marking plate" means a triangular plate with truncated corners with a 
characteristic pattern faced with retro-reflectors or retro-reflective materials or fluorescent material.
2.4.17.4. "Sample unit" means a complete retro-reflective device ready to be mounted on a vehicle and representative 
of current production.
2.4.17.5. "Fluorescence" means when certain substances are brought near to a source of ultraviolet or blue radiations, 
they emit radiations which are nearly always of longer wave-length than those producing the effect. This 
phenomenon is called fluorescence. By day and in twilight, fluorescent colours are brighter than normal 
colours because they reflect part of the light falling upon them, and in addition they emit light. At night 
they are not brighter than ordinary colours.
2.5. Lamps
2.5.1. "Driving-beam (main-beam) headlamp" means the lamp used to illuminate the road over a long distance ahead 
of the vehicle.
2.5.2. "Passing-beam (dipped-beam) headlamp" means the lamp used to illuminate the road ahead of the vehicle 
without causing undue dazzle or discomfort to oncoming drivers and other road-users.
2.5.2.1. "Principal passing-beam (principal dipped-beam)" means the dipped-beam produced without the contribution of 
infrared (IR) emitter and/or additional light sources for bend lighting.
2.5.3. "Direction-indicator lamp" means the lamp used to indicate to other road-users that the driver intends to 
change direction to the right or to the left. A direction-indicator lamp or lamps may also be used according 
to the provisions of UN Regulation No. 97 or No. 116.
2.5.4. "Stop lamp" means a lamp used to indicate to other road users to the rear of the vehicle that the longitudinal 
movement of the vehicle is intentionally retarded.
2.5.5. "Rear-registration plate illuminating device" means the device used to illuminate the space reserved for the rear 
registration plate; such a device may consist of several optical components.
EN Official Journal of the European Union 30.9.2021                                                                                                                                           L 347/7  
2.5.6. "Front position lamp" means the lamp used to indicate the presence and the width of the vehicle when viewed 
from the front.
2.5.7. "Rear position lamp" means the lamp used to indicate the presence and width of the vehicle when viewed 
from the rear.
2.5.8. "Retro-reflector" means a device used to indicate the presence of a vehicle by the reflection of light emanating 
from a light source not connected to the vehicle, the observer being situated near the source.
For the purposes of this Regulation the following are not considered as retro-reflectors:
2.5.8.1. Retro-reflecting number plates;
2.5.8.2. The retro-reflecting signals mentioned in the ADR (European Agreement concerning the international 
carriage of dangerous goods by road);
2.5.8.3. Other retro-reflective plates and signals which shall be used to comply with national requirements for use as 
regards certain categories of vehicles or certain methods of operation;
2.5.8.4. Retro-reflecting materials approved as Class D or E or F according to UN Regulations Nos. 104 or No. 150 
and used for other purposes in compliance with national requirements.".
2.5.9. "Conspicuity marking" means a device intended to increase the conspicuity of a vehicle, when viewed from the 
side or rear (or in the case of trailers, additionally from the front), by the reflection of light emanating from a 
light source not connected to the vehicle, the observer being situated near the source.
2.5.9.1. "Contour marking" means a conspicuity marking intended to indicate the horizontal and vertical dimensions 
(length, width and height) of a vehicle.
2.5.9.1.1. "Full contour marking" means a contour marking that indicates the outline of the vehicle by a continuous line.
2.5.9.1.2. "Partial contour marking" means a contour marking that indicates the horizontal dimension of the vehicle by a 
continuous line, and the vertical dimension by marking the upper corners.
2.5.9.2. "Line marking" means a conspicuity marking intended to indicate the horizontal dimensions (length and 
width) of a vehicle by a continuous line.
2.5.10. "Front fog lamp" means a lamp used to improve the illumination of the road ahead of the vehicle in case of 
fog or any similar condition of reduced visibility.
2.5.11. "Rear fog lamp" means a lamp used to make the vehicle more easily visible from the rear in dense fog.
2.5.12. "Reversing lamp" means the lamp used to illuminate the road to the rear of the vehicle and to warn other 
road-users that the vehicle is reversing or about to reverse.
2.5.13. "Parking lamp" means a lamp which is used to draw attention to the presence of a stationary vehicle in a 
built-up area. In such circumstances it replaces the front and rear position lamps.
EN Official Journal of the European Union L 347/8                                                                                                                                           30.9.2021  
2.5.14. "End-outline marker lamp" means the lamp fitted near to the extreme outer edge and as close as possible to the 
top of the vehicle and intended to indicate clearly the vehicle's overall width. This lamp is intended, for 
certain vehicles and trailers, to complement the vehicle's front and rear position lamps by drawing 
particular attention to its bulk.
2.5.15. "Side marker lamp" means a lamp used to indicate the presence of the vehicle when viewed from the side.
2.5.16. "Daytime running lamp" means a lamp facing in a forward direction used to make the vehicle more easily 
visible when driving during daytime.
2.5.17. "Cornering lamp" means a lamp used to provide supplementary illumination of that part of the road which is 
located near the forward corner of the vehicle at the side towards which the vehicle is going to turn.
2.5.18. "Exterior courtesy lamp" means a lamp used to provide supplementary illumination to assist the entry and exit 
of the vehicle driver and passenger or in loading operations;
2.5.19. "Manoeuvring lamp" means a lamp used to provide supplementary illumination to the side of the vehicle to 
assist during slow manoeuvres.
2.5.20. "External status indicator" means an optical signal mounted on the outside of the vehicle to indicate the status 
or the change of the status for Vehicle Alarm System (VAS), Alarm System (AS) and immobilizer of UN 
Regulations No. 97 and No. 116, when the vehicle is parked.
2.6. Signal
2.6.1. "Hazard warning signal" means the simultaneous operation of all of a vehicle's direction-indicator lamps to 
show that the vehicle temporarily constitutes a special danger to other road users.
2.6.2. "Emergency stop signal" means a signal to indicate to other road users to the rear of the vehicle that a high 
retardation force has been applied to the vehicle relative to the prevailing road conditions.
2.6.3. "Rear-end collision alert signal (RECAS)" means an automatic signal given by the leading vehicle to the 
following vehicle. It warns that the following vehicle needs to take emergency action to avoid a collision.
2.7. System
2.7.1. "Aiming" means the positioning of the beam or part thereof on an aiming screen according to the relevant 
criteria;
2.7.2. "Adjustment" means the use of the means provided by the system for vertical and/or horizontal aiming of the 
beam;
2.7.3. "Bend lighting" means a lighting function to provide enhanced illumination in bends.
2.7.4. "Adaptive front lighting system" (or "AFS") means a lighting device type-approved according to UN Regulations 
Nos. 123 or No. 149, providing beams with differing characteristics for automatic adaptation to varying 
conditions of use of the dipped-beam (passing-beam) and, if it applies, the main-beam (driving-beam).
2.7.4.1. "Lighting unit" means a light-emitting component designed to provide or contribute to one or more front 
lighting function(s) provided by the AFS.
EN Official Journal of the European Union 30.9.2021                                                                                                                                           L 347/9  
2.7.4.2. "Installation unit" means an indivisible housing (lamp body) which contains one or more lighting unit(s).
2.7.4.3. "Lighting mode" or "Mode" of a front-lighting function provided by an AFS means a beam within the 
provisions either for one of the passing beam classes or for the main beam, designed and specified by the 
manufacturer for adaptation to dedicated vehicle and ambient conditions;
2.7.4.4. "System control" means that part(s) of the AFS receiving the AFS control signals from the vehicle and 
controlling the operation of the lighting units automatically.
2.7.4.5. "AFS control signal" (V, E, W, T) means the input to the AFS in accordance with the paragraph 6.22.7.4. of this 
Regulation.
2.7.4.6. "Neutral state" means the state of the AFS when a defined mode of the class C passing-beam ("basic passing- 
beam") or of the main beam in the maximum condition of activation, if any, is produced, and no AFS 
control signal applies.
2.7.4.7. "Adaptive main-beam" means a main-beam of the AFS that adapts its beam pattern to the presence of 
oncoming and preceding vehicles in order to improve the long-range visibility for the driver without 
causing discomfort, distraction or glare to other road users.
2.7.5. Definitions with regard to AFS:
2.7.5.1. "Class" of a passing beam (C, V, E or W) means the designation of a passing beam, identified by particular 
provisions according to UN Regulation No. 48 (For explanation only. The provisions of the passing-beam 
classes are dedicated to conditions as follows: C for the basic passing-beam, V for use in lit areas such as 
towns, E for use on roads such as motorways, W for use in adverse conditions such as wet road);
2.7.5.2. "Bending mode" means the designation of a mode of a front-lighting function with its illumination being 
laterally moved or modified (to obtain an equivalent effect), designed for bends, curves or intersections of 
the road, and, identified by particular photometric provisions;
(a) "Category 1 bending mode" means a bending mode with horizontal movement of the kink of the cut-off;
(b) "Category 2 bending mode" means a bending mode without horizontal movement of the kink of the cut- 
off;
2.7.5.3. "Right side" respectively "left side" means the combined total of the lighting units intended to be installed to 
that side of the longitudinal median plane of the vehicle, relative to its forward motion;
2.7.5.4. "Signal" means any AFS control signal or any additional control input to the system or a control output from 
the system to the vehicle;
2.7.5.5. "Signal generator" means a device, reproducing one or more of the signals for system tests;
2.7.5.6. "Supply and operating device" means one or more components of a system providing power to one or more 
parts of the system, including such as power and/or voltage control(s) for one or more light sources as e.g. 
electronic light source control gears;
2.7.5.7. "System reference axis" for an AFS means the intersection line of the vehicle's longitudinal median plane with 
the horizontal plane through the centre of reference of one lighting unit specified in the drawings 
accompanying the application for approval of the device;
EN Official Journal of the European Union L 347/10                                                                                                                                         30.9.2021  
2.7.5.8. "Traffic-change function" means any front-lighting function or a mode thereof, or part(s) thereof only, or any 
combination of these, intended to avoid glare and provide sufficient illumination in case where a vehicle 
being equipped with a system designed for one traffic direction only is temporarily used in a country with 
the opposite direction of traffic.
2.7.5.9. "Substitute function" means any specified front-lighting and/or front light-signalling, be it a front-lighting 
and/or a front light-signalling function, or a mode thereof, or part(s) thereof only, or any combination of it, 
intended to replace a front-lighting function/ mode in case of failure.
2.7.5.10. "Functional unit" means a part of a lighting unit providing a specific light distribution which may be used for 
different modes or classes. If used for the bending mode its light distribution may vary as a function of the 
T-signal (turn-radius); however, the light distribution shall be identical for a given T-signal (turn-radius) in 
all modes or classes.
2.7.6. Definitions with regard to switching and activation:
2.7.6.1. "Switch ON" means to manually or automatically operate an illuminating or signalling function to effectively 
emit light, irrespective of whether the function is operating correctly or not.
2.7.6.2. "Switch OFF" means to manually or automatically operate an illuminating or signalling function to stop 
emitting light, irrespective of whether the function is operating correctly or not.
2.7.6.3. "Activate" means to manually or automatically enable an illuminating or signalling function, irrespective of 
whether light is emitted or not (e.g. enable stand-by mode).
2.7.6.4. "Deactivate" means to manually or automatically disable an illuminating or signalling function, irrespective of 
whether light is emitted or not (e.g. disable stand-by mode).
2.7.6.5. "Sequential activation" means an electrical connection where the individual light sources of a lamp are wired 
such that they are switched ON in a predetermined sequence according to the relevant UN Regulations
2.7.7. "Retro-reflecting optical unit" means a combination of optical components producing retro-reflection.
2.8. Lens
2.8.1. "Lens" means the outermost component of the lamp (unit) which transmits light through the illuminating 
surface;
2.8.2. "Coating" means any product or products applied in one or more layers to the outer face of a lens;
2.8.3. "Textured outer lens" or "Textured outer lens area" means all or part of an outer lens, designed to modify or 
influence the propagation of light from the light source(s), such that the light rays are significantly diverted 
from their original direction.
2.9. Light sources
2.9.1. "Light source" means one or more elements for visible radiation, with a base for mechanical and electrical 
connection, possibly assembled with one or more components to control the elements for visible radiation.
EN Official Journal of the European Union 30.9.202