Transitional provisions 
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      13.1. 
                   
                   
                      As from the official date of entry into force of the 02 series of amendments, no Contracting Party applying this Regulation shall refuse to grant or refuse to accept type approvals under this Regulation as amended by the 02 series of amendments. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      13.2. 
                   
                   
                      As from 1 September 2021, Contracting Parties applying this Regulation shall not be obliged to accept type approvals issued to the preceding series of amendments to this Regulation. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      13.3. 
                   
                   
                      Notwithstanding paragraph 13.2., Contracting Parties applying this Regulation shall continue to accept type approvals of mechanical coupling devices and components issued according to the preceding series of amendments to this Regulation. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      13.4. 
                   
                   
                      Notwithstanding paragraph 13.2., Contracting Parties applying this Regulation shall continue to accept type approvals issued according to the preceding series of amendments to this Regulation, for the vehicles which are not affected by the changes introduced by the 02 series of amendments. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      13.5. 
                   
                   
                      Notwithstanding paragraph 13.3., until 1 September 2023, Contracting Parties applying this Regulation shall accept type approvals of Class D50-X drawbar eyes to the preceding series of amendments, first issued before 1 September 2021. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      13.6. 
                   
                   
                      As from the official date of entry into force of the 03 series of amendments, no Contracting Party applying this Regulation shall refuse to grant or refuse to accept type approvals under this Regulation as amended by the 03 series of amendments. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      13.7. 
                   
                   
                      As from 1 September 2025, Contracting Parties applying this Regulation shall not be obliged to accept type approvals issued to the preceding series of amendments to this Regulation. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      13.8. 
                   
                   
                      Notwithstanding paragraph 13.7, Contracting Parties applying this Regulation shall continue to accept type approvals of mechanical coupling devices and components issued according to the preceding series of amendments to this Regulation. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      13.9. 
                   
                   
                      Notwithstanding paragraph 13.7, Contracting Parties applying this Regulation shall continue to accept type approvals issued according to the preceding series of amendments to this Regulation, for the vehicles which are not affected by the changes introduced by the 03 series of amendments. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      13.10. 
                   
                   
                      Contracting Parties applying this Regulation shall not refuse to grant type approvals according to any preceding series of amendments to this Regulation or extensions thereof. 