Transitional provisions 
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      11.1. 
                   
                   
                      As from the official date of entry into force of the 06 series of amendments, no Contracting Party applying this Regulation shall refuse to grant or refuse to accept type-approvals under this Regulation as amended by the 06 series of amendments. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      11.2. 
                   
                   
                      As from 1 September 2027, Contracting Parties applying this Regulation shall not be obliged to accept type-approvals of vehicles according to the preceding series of amendments, first issued after 1 September 2027. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      11.3. 
                   
                   
                      Contracting Parties applying this Regulation shall continue to accept type-approvals of vehicles according to the preceding series of amendments, first issued before 1 September 2027 provided the transitional provisions in these respective previous series of amendments foresee this possibility. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      11.4. 
                   
                   
                      Contracting Parties applying this Regulation may grant type approvals according to any preceding series of amendments to this Regulation. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      11.5. 
                   
                   
                      Contracting Parties applying this Regulation shall continue to grant extensions of existing approvals to any preceding series of amendments to this Regulation. 
                   
                
             
          
          
             
             
             
             
                
                   
                   
                      11.6. 
                   
                   
                      Notwithstanding the transitional provisions above, Contracting Parties who start to apply this Regulation after the date of entry into force of the most recent series of amendments are not obliged to accept type-approvals which were granted in accordance with any of the preceding series of amendments to this Regulation. 
                   
                
             
          
          
          
             ( 1 )   As defined in the Consolidated Resolution on the Construction of Vehicles (R.E.3.), document ECE/TRANS/WP.29/78/Rev.7, para. 2 - 
          
             https://unece.org/transport/vehicle-regulations/wp29/resolutions . 
          
             ( 2 )   The distinguishing numbers of the Contracting Parties to the 1958 Agreement are reproduced in Annex 3 to the Consolidated Resolution on the Construction of Vehicles (R.E.3), document ECE/TRANS/WP.29/78/Rev. 7, Annex 3 - 
          
             https://unece.org/transport/vehicle-regulations/wp29/resolutions . 
          
             ( 3 )   Until 30 September 2000, for the purposes of the test requirements, the range of normal longitudinal adjustments shall be limited such that the H-point lies within the length of the door aperture. 
       
       
       
          
             ANNEX 1 
             Communication 
             (maximum format: A4 (210 × 297 mm)) 
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                         
                            
                               
                            
                         
                          ( 1 ) 
                      
                      
                         issued by: 
                      
                      
                         Name of administration: 
                         … 
                         … 
                         … 
                      
                   
                   
                      
                         
                            ( 1 )   Distinguishing number of the country which has granted/extended/refused/withdrawn approval (see approval provisions in the Regulation). 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
             
             
                
                
                
                   
                      
                         Concerning:  ( 2 ) 
                         
                      
                      
                         Approval granted 
                         Approval extended 
                         Approval refused 
                         Approval withdrawn 
                         Production definitively discontinued 
                      
                   
                   
                      
                         
                            ( 2 )   Strike out what does not apply. 
                      
                   
                
             
             of a vehicle type with regard to protection of occupants in the event of a lateral collision pursuant to Regulation No. 95 
             
                
                
                
                   
                      
                         Approval No. … 
                      
                      
                         Extension No. … 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                1.    
                
                   Trade name or mark of the power-driven vehicle: … 
                
             
             
                2.    
                
                   Vehicle type: … 
                
             
             
                3.    
                
                   Manufacturer’s name and address: … 
                
             
             
                4.    
                
                   If applicable, name and address of manufacturer’s representative: … 
                
             
             
                5.    
                
                   Vehicle submitted for approval on: … 
                
             
             
                6.    
                
                   Side impact dummy utilized ES-1/ES-2:  ( 2 )  … 
                
             
             
                7.    
                
                   Location of the electric power source: … 
                
             
             
                8.    
                
                   Technical Service responsible for conducting approval tests: … 
                
             
             
                9.    
                
                   Date of test report: … 
                
             
             
                10.    
                
                   Number of test report: … 
                
             
             
                11.    
                
                   Approval granted/refused/extended/withdrawn:  ( 2 )  … 
                
             
             
                12.    
                
                   Position of approval mark on the vehicle: … 
                
             
             
                13.    
                
                   Place: … 
                
             
             
                14.    
                
                   Date: … 
                
             
             
                15.    
                
                   Signature: … 
                
             
             
                16.    
                
                   The list of documents deposited with the Type Approval Authority which has granted approval is annexed to this communication and may be obtained on request. 
                
             
             
             
                ( 1 )   Distinguishing number of the country which has granted/extended/refused/withdrawn approval (see approval provisions in the Regulation). 
             
                ( 2 )   Strike out what does not apply. 
          
       
       
       
          
             ANNEX 2 
             Arrangements of the Approval Mark 
             MODEL A 
             (See paragraph 4.5. of this Regulation) 
             
                
                   
                
             
             a = 8 mm min. 
             The above approval mark affixed to a vehicle shows that the vehicle type concerned has, with regard to the protection of the occupants in the event of a lateral collision, been approved in the Netherlands (E 4) pursuant to UN Regulation No. 95 under approval number 061424. The approval number indicates that the approval was granted in accordance with the requirements of UN Regulation No. 95 as amended by the 06 series of amendments. 
             MODEL B 
             (See paragraph 4.6. of this Regulation) 
             
                
                   
                
             
             a = 8 mm min. 
             The above approval mark affixed to a vehicle shows that the vehicle type concerned has been approved in the Netherlands (E 4) pursuant to UN Regulations Nos. 95 and 24.  ( 1 )  The first two digits of the approval numbers indicate that, at the dates when the respective approvals were granted UN Regulation No. 95 incorporated the 06 series of amendments and UN Regulation No. 24 incorporated the 03 series of amendments. 
             
             
                ( 1 )   The latter number is given only as an example. 
          
       
       
       
          
             ANNEX 3 
             Procedure for determining the "H" point and the actual torso angle for seating positions in motor vehicles  ( 1 ) 
             
             
                Appendix 1 -    
                
                   Description of the three dimensional "H" point machine (3-D H machine)  ( 1 ) 
                   
                
             
             
                Appendix 2 -    
                
                   Three-dimensional reference system  ( 1 ) 
                   
                
             
             
                Appendix 3 -    
                
                   Reference data concerning seating positions  ( 1 ) 
                   
                
             
             
             
                ( 1 )   The procedure is described in Addendum 6 of Mutual Resolution No. 1 (M.R.1) (document ECE/TRANS/WP.29/1101/Amend.5); 
             see  https://unece.org/transport/vehicle-regulations/wp29/resolutions . 
          
       
       
       
          
             ANNEX 4 
             Collision test procedure 
             1.   Installations 
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         1.1. 
                      
                      
                         Testing ground 
                         The test area shall be large enough to accommodate the mobile deformable barrier propulsion system and to permit after-impact displacement of the vehicle impacted and installation of the test equipment. The part in which vehicle impact and displacement occur shall be horizontal, flat and uncontaminated, and representative of a normal, dry, uncontaminated road surface. 
                      
                   
                
             
             2.   Test conditions 
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         2.1. 
                      
                      
                         The vehicle to be tested shall be stationary. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         2.2. 
                      
                      
                         The mobile deformable barrier shall have the characteristics set out in Annex 5 to this Regulation. Requirements for the examination are given in the appendices to Annex 5. The mobile deformable barrier shall be equipped with a suitable device to prevent a second impact on the struck vehicle. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         2.3. 
                      
                      
                         The trajectory of the mobile deformable barrier longitudinal median vertical plane shall be perpendicular to the longitudinal median vertical plane of the impacted vehicle. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         2.4. 
                      
                      
                         The longitudinal vertical median plane of the mobile deformable barrier shall be coincident within ±25 mm with a transverse vertical plane passing through the R point of the front seat adjacent to the struck side of the tested vehicle. The horizontal median plane limited by the external lateral vertical planes of the front face shall be at the moment of impact within two planes determined before the test and situated 25 mm above and below the previously defined plane. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         2.5. 
                      
                      
                         Instrumentation shall comply with ISO 6487:1987 unless otherwise specified in this Regulation. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         2.6. 
                      
                      
                         The stabilized temperature of the test dummy at the time of the side impact test shall be 22 ± 4 °C. 
                      
                   
                
             
             3.   Test speed 
             The mobile deformable barrier speed at the moment of impact shall be 50 ± 1 km/h. This speed shall be stabilized at least 0.5 m before impact. Accuracy of measurement: 1 per cent. However, if the test was performed at a higher impact speed and the vehicle met the requirements, the test shall be considered satisfactory. 
             4.   State of the vehicle 
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         4.1. 
                      
                      
                         General specification 
                         The test vehicle shall be representative of the series production, shall include all the equipment normally fitted and shall be in normal running order. Some components may be omitted or replaced by equivalent masses where this omission or substitution clearly has no effect on the results of the test. 
                         It shall be allowed by agreement between manufacturer and Technical Service to modify the fuel system so that an appropriate amount of fuel can be used to run the engine or the electrical energy conversion system. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         4.2. 
                      
                      
                         Vehicle equipment specification 
                         The test vehicle shall have all the optional arrangements or fittings likely to influence the results of the test. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         4.3. 
                      
                      
                         Mass of the vehicle 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         4.3.1. 
                      
                      
                         The vehicle to be tested shall have the reference mass as defined in paragraph 2.10. of this Regulation. The mass of the vehicle shall be adjusted to ±1 per cent of the reference mass. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         4.3.2. 
                      
                      
                         The fuel tank shall be filled with water to a mass equal to 90 per cent of the mass of a full load of fuel as specified by the manufacturer with a tolerance of ±1 per cent. 
                         This requirement does not apply to hydrogen fuel tanks. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         4.3.3. 
                      
                      
                         All the other systems (brake, cooling, etc.) may be empty; in this case, the mass of the liquids shall be offset. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         4.3.4. 
                      
                      
                         If the mass of the measuring apparatus on board of the vehicle exceeds the 25 kg allowed, it may be offset by reductions which have no noticeable effect on the results of the test. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         4.3.5. 
                      
                      
                         The mass of the measuring apparatus shall not change each axle reference load by more than 5 per cent, each variation not exceeding 20 kg. 
                      
                   
                
             
             5.   Preparation of the vehicle 
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         5.1. 
                      
                      
                         The side windows at least on the struck side shall be closed. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         5.2. 
                      
                      
                         The doors shall be closed, but not locked. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         5.2.1. 
                      
                      
                         However, in the case of vehicles equipped with an automatically activated door locking system, it shall be ensured that all the side doors are locked before the test. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         5.2.2. 
                      
                      
                         In the case of vehicles equipped with an automatically activated door locking system, which is installed optionally and/or which can be de-activated by the driver, one of the following two procedures shall be used at the choice of the manufacturer: 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         5.2.2.1. 
                      
                      
                         All the side doors shall be locked manually before the start of the test. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         5.2.2.2. 
                      
                      
                         It shall be ensured that the side doors on the struck side are unlocked and the side doors on the non-struck side locked before the impact; the automatically activated door-locking system may be overridden for this test. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         5.3. 
                      
                      
                         The transmission shall be placed in neutral and the parking brake disengaged. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         5.4. 
                      
                      
                         The comfort adjustments of the seats, if any, shall be adjusted to the position specified by the vehicle manufacturer. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         5.5. 
                      
                      
                         The seat containing the dummy, and its elements, if adjustable, shall be adjusted as follows: 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         5.5.1. 
                      
                      
                         The longitudinal adjustment device shall be placed with the locking device engaged in the position that is nearest to midway between the foremost and rearmost positions; if this position is between two notches, the rearmost notch shall be used. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         5.5.2. 
                      
                      
                         The head restraint shall be adjusted such that its top surface is level with the centre of gravity of the dummy’s head; if this is not possible, the head restraint shall be in the uppermost position. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         5.5.3. 
                      
                      
                         Unless otherwise specified by the manufacturer, the seat-back shall be set such that the torso reference line of the three-dimensional H point machine is set at an angle of 25 ± 1°towards the rear. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         5.5.4. 
                      
                      
                         All other seat adjustments shall be at the mid-point of available travel; however, height adjustment shall be at the position corresponding to the fixed seat, if the vehicle type is available with adjustable and fixed seats. If locking positions are not available at the respective mid-points of travel, the positions immediately rearward, down, or outboard of the mid-points shall be used. For rotational adjustments (tilt), rearward will be the adjustment direction which moves the head of the dummy rearwards. If the dummy protrudes outside the normal passenger volume, e.g. head into roof lining, then 1 cm clearance will be provided using: secondary adjustments, seat-back angle, or fore-aft adjustment in that order. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         5.6. 
                      
                      
                         Unless otherwise specified by the manufacturer, the other front seats shall, if possible, be adjusted to the same position as the seat containing the dummy. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         5.7. 
                      
                      
                         If the steering wheel is adjustable, all adjustments are positioned to their mid-travel locations. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         5.8. 
                      
                      
                         Tyres shall be inflated to the pressure specified by the vehicle manufacturer. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         5.9. 
                      
                      
                         The test vehicle shall be set horizontal about its roll axis and maintained by supports in that position until the side impact dummy is in place and after all preparatory work is complete. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         5.10. 
                      
                      
                         The vehicle shall be at its normal attitude corresponding to the conditions set out in paragraph 4.3. above. Vehicles with suspension enabling their ground clearance to be adjusted shall be tested under the normal conditions of use at 50 km/h as defined by the vehicle manufacturer. This shall be assured by means of additional supports, if necessary, but such supports shall have no influence on the crash behaviour of the test vehicle during the impact. 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         5.11. 
                      
                      
                         Electrical power train adjustment 
                      
                   
                
             
             
                
                
                
                
                   
                      
                      
                         5.11.1. 
                      
              